Here's How Quantum Computing Will Change The World Billionaires All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics  2020 Money Innovation All Innovation 5G AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Cybersecurity Enterprise Tech Games Green Tech Healthcare IBM Security BrandVoice | Paid Program Japan BrandVoice  | Paid Program Jumio BrandVoice  | Paid Program Oracle BrandVoice  | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice  | Paid Program Science ServiceNow BrandVoice | Paid Program Smartsheet BrandVoice | Paid Program Social Media T-Mobile For Business BrandVoice | Paid Program Venture Capital Leadership All Leadership Careers CFO Network CIO Network CMO Network Deloitte BrandVoice  | Paid Program Diversity & Inclusion Education ForbesWomen Google Cloud BrandVoice  | Paid Program Leadership Strategy Under 30 Working Remote Money All Money Banking & Insurance Crypto & Blockchain ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Markets Personal Finance Premium Investing Newsletters Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Business All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment KPMG BrandVoice | Paid Program Manufacturing Media Mitsubishi Heavy Industries BrandVoice | Paid Program Policy Real Estate Retail SportsMoney Transportation Small Business All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Lists All Lists Advisor All Advisor The Best Credit Cards Of 2020 Best Personal Loans Best Savings Accounts Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Student Loans Best Checking Accounts Best 0% APR Credit Cards Auto Loan Calculator Best CD Rates Best Cash Back Credit Cards Personal Loan Calculator Best Online Banks  Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Car Insurance Rates Second Stimulus Check Calculator ($40K) Best Business Credit Cards Best Travel Insurance Companies Second Stimulus Check Calculator (HEROES) Browse All Credit Cards Best Life Insurance Companies Second Stimulus Check Calculator Proposals  Wheels All Wheels Featured 30 Under 30 2020 DNA Of Success Forbes Analytics Plus With Teradata | Paid Program Hitachi Insights | Paid Program Roostify Insights | Paid Program ServiceNow BrandVoice Tableau BrandVoice | Paid Program ThePowerMBA BrandVoice | Paid Program The 2020 World's Most Valuable Brands Under 30 Detroit Hackathon: Accelerating Change Voices Of Success More Forbes Daily Cover Stories Forbes Editors' Picks Daily Dozen Briefing Crypto Confidential Newsletters Forbes Shopping Forbes Coupons Forbes 8 Forbes Video Dark Capital Forbes Magazine Investing Digest Free Issue of Forbes Report a Security Issue Site Feedback Tips Corrections Privacy Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2020 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved BETA This is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by  clicking here Edit Story | Oct 2, 2016, 11:53pm EDT Here's How Quantum Computing Will Change The World Greg Satell Former Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Tech This article is more than 3 years old. Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Share to Linkedin 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The D-Wave 1,000 qubit processor. A 2000 qubit version will be available in 2017. (image courtesy of ... [+]  D-Wave) 
 
 
 
 
 When the world’s first digital computer was completed in 1946 it opened up new vast new worlds of possibility. Still, early computers were only used for limited applications because they could only be programmed in machine code. It took so long to set up problems that they were only practical for massive calculations. 
 That all changed when  John Backus  created the first programming language,  FORTRAN , at IBM in 1957. For the first time, real world problems could be quickly and efficiently transformed into machine language, which made them far more practical and useful. In the 1960’s, the market for computers soared. 
 Like the first digital computers,  quantum computing offers the possibility of technology millions of times more powerful  than current systems, but the key to success will be translating real world problems into quantum language. At  D-Wave , the first company to offer the technology for commercial use, that process is already underway and it is revealing massive potential. 
 
 Swallowing Complexity Whole 
 Recommended For You Turkey Set To Impose Tighter Controls On Social Media One of the toughest problems in mathematics is known as the  traveling salesperson problem , which asks to find the shortest route between a list of cities. It sounds fairly simple and, in some sense it is, but in terms of computation it is enormous. Traditionally, engineers have used shortcuts, such as the  Monte Carlo method  or  genetic algorithms  to solve it. 
 The traveling salesperson problem is also pervasive. Practically anytime you want to make a complex process more efficient, you need to do this kind of  combinatorial optimization . Logistics businesses need to solve a version of it every time they plan a route. Semiconductor manufacturers encounter similar issues when they design and manufacture chips. 
 
 D-Wave has  begun to work with investment managers  on the related problem of designing portfolios. In order to generate the maximum returns for a given risk profile, a fund manager needs to not only choose among the thousands of available securities, but also minimize transaction costs by achieving the most optimal portfolio in the minimum number of trades. 
 In each case, D-Wave’s quantum systems allow us to swallow complexity whole, rather than using shortcuts that reduce efficiency. Jeremy Hilton, Senior Vice President, Systems, at D-Wave says “Complex processes are all around us. By using quantum computing to operate them more effectively, we can make just about everything we do run more smoothly.” 
 Enabling A New Era Of Medical Science 
 When the  Human Genome Project  was completed in 2003, it ushered in a new era of medicine. Rather than treat every patient the same way, it showed that we could design treatments to suit a particular genetic makeup. This has been especially effective in  targeted cancer therapies . 
 While these are major advances, our newfound knowledge has also revealed our limitations. Unlocking the secrets of DNA exposed how little we know about the proteins it codes for, just as early successes with targeted therapies have shown us how much more we can achieve by working with complete genomes rather than just isolated markers in our chromosomes. 
 Unfortunately, conventional computers aren’t powerful enough to perform these tasks well, but early indications are that quantum computers can close the gap. Scientists at Harvard  have found  that quantum computers will allow us to map proteins much as we do genes today. D-Wave has also formed a  partnership with DNA-SEQ  to use its quantum computers to explore how to analyze entire genomes to create more effective therapies. 
 Mapping the human genome was a triumph of technology as much as it was an achievement in biology. It was, essentially, more powerful computers that allowed us to analyze human DNA on a massive scale.  However, if we are to advance further, quantum systems will likely be a big part of the answer. 
 It’s Not Nice To Call Your Mother An Idiot 
 Take a look on the Internet and you can find  hilarious lists  of autocorrect mangling phrases, like changing “I don’t” to “idiot” in a text to your mom. These are embarrassing mistakes, but they usually don’t cause too much trouble.  However, in other applications, like picking a terrorist out of a crowd through facial recognition, the stakes are far higher. 
 These problems arise because of how machine learning algorithms are designed and trained. Like our brains, they process different aspects of an experience, such as colors and shapes and integrate them into larger concepts, such as a human face, a type of hairstyle or the signature style of a popular designer. 
 However, in order for this process to work well, the more elemental aspects need to be correctly identified or they will pass on bad information to the higher levels of the system. Because of the limited capacity of conventional computers, data is lost in the training process and things are not recognized correctly, resulting in insults to your mom and terrorists misidentified. 
 Here again, quantum computing can help close the gap. D-Wave is working with a number of partners,  such as NASA , to help train artificial intelligence systems to reflect human thought processes far more completely than is possible with conventional computers, which will help to minimize mistakes. 
 D-Wave’s Hilton told me that quantum computers will make it possible for our technology to develop something akin to intuition, allowing them to know that something is wrong even if they can’t point to exactly why. 
 Augmenting Human Intelligence 
 In 1968, just a decade after John Backus introduced FORTRAN,  Douglas Engelbart  presented the results of his project to “augment human intellect” and it turned out to be so consequential that it is now called  The Mother of All Demos . Until that point computers were, much like quantum technology today, merely computational devices that few people ever saw. 
 Yet Engelbart showed that they could be much more. Using something he called a “mouse” and a keyboard, he showed how just about anyone could navigate around a screen and operate a computer. Later, Xerox developed its  Alto computer  based on Engelbart's ideas, which formed the basis for Steve Jobs’ launch of the Macintosh in 1984. 
 Today, quantum computing is somewhere between the arrival of FORTRAN and Engelbart’s “Mother of all Demos.” Highly trained specialists are able to translate real world problems into language a quantum computer can understand, but for most people the technology is out of reach. That will change in the years to come. 
 I'm  not implying  that we will all have quantum computers in our homes, but we will likely be able to access them in the cloud and they will help us solve problems that seem impossible today. D-Wave’s Hilton told me “the quantum computing revolution may be even more profound than the digital computing revolution a half century ago and it will happen much faster.” Follow me on  Twitter .  Check out  my  website .  Greg Satell For most of my career, I developed and managed media businesses in the emerging markets of Eastern Europe. I’ve also held senior strategic roles in the Publicis Groupe.…  Read More For most of my career, I developed and managed media businesses in the emerging markets of Eastern Europe. I’ve also held senior strategic roles in the Publicis Groupe. Now I’m back in the US, speaking and consulting for a variety of businesses. You can find my website at www.DigitalTonto.com and follow me on Twitter @DigitalTonto.    Read Less Print Site Feedback Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy © 2020 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Report a Security Issue AdChoices 