 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/quantum  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-30  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start quantum   computing HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  
 html 
 Quantum computing | Microsoft 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to main content 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Microsoft 
 
 
 
 Quantum 
 
 
 
 
 Quantum 
 
 
 
 
 Quantum 
 
 
 
 
 
  Home  
 
 
 Vision 
 
 
 Azure  Quantum 
 
 
 Development kit 
 
 
 Labs 
 
 
 Quantum  Network 
 
 
 
 Resources 
 
 
 Blog 
 
 
 Newsletter sign-up 
 
 
 Open positions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 More 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   All Microsoft 
 
 
 
 
 Microsoft 365 
 
 
 Azure 
 
 
 Office 365 
 
 
 Dynamics 365 
 
 
 SQL 
 
 
 Windows 10 
 
 
 
 
 Products & Services 
 
 
 Windows Server 
 
 
 Enterprise Mobility + Security 
 
 
 Power BI 
 
 
 Teams 
 
 
 Visual Studio 
 
 
 Microsoft Advertising 
 
 
 
 
 Emerging Technologies 
 
 
 AI 
 
 
 Internet of Things 
 
 
 Azure Cognitive Services 
 
 
 Quantum 
 
 
 Microsoft HoloLens 
 
 
 Mixed Reality 
 
 
 
 
 Developer & IT 
 
 
 Docs 
 
 
 TechNet 
 
 
 Developer Network 
 
 
 Windows Dev Center 
 
 
 Windows IT Pro Center 
 
 
 FastTrack 
 
 
 
 
 Partner 
 
 
 Partner Network 
 
 
 Solution Providers 
 
 
 Partner Center 
 
 
 Cloud Hosting 
 
 
 
 
 Industries 
 
 
 Education 
 
 
 Financial services 
 
 
 Government 
 
 
 Health 
 
 
 Manufacturing & resources 
 
 
 Retail 
 
 
 
 
 Other 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 Licensing 
 
 
 AppSource 
 
 
 Azure Marketplace 
 
 
 Events 
 
 
 Research 
 
 
 
 
 View Sitemap 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 Search Microsoft.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read how Microsoft is responding to the COVID-19 outbreak, and get resources to help 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experience  quantum  impact today 
 To deliver on the promise of  quantum   computing  and solve the problems that will forever change our future, we need a  quantum  computer that scales.  We are focused on ground-breaking innovation at every layer of the  quantum  stack, from applications and solutions to cryogenic control and qubits.  Our unique approach pushes the boundaries of  computing  to create unprecedented possibilities for our world. 
 
 
 
 
                Watch now
             
 
 
 
 
 
 Close 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Introducing Azure  Quantum   
 Azure  Quantum  is the world’s first full-stack, open cloud ecosystem for  quantum  impact today, providing developers and customers access within Azure to the most diverse selection of  quantum  solutions, software and hardware across the industry. 
 
 
 
 Learn more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 View the free on-demand content from our recent Azure  Quantum  developer workshop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A scalable, open approach to  quantum  solutions and development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Experience impact today through Azure  Quantum   Microsoft is building a full-stack  quantum  ecosystem, delivered through the power and scale of Azure’s global cloud services platform. 
 
 
 Azure  Quantum 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Collaborate with a community of pioneers   Join the growing worldwide community of enterprises, academics, researchers, startups, students, and developers working together to create a comprehensive  quantum  ecosystem. To build this right, we need to build it together. 
 
 
 Microsoft  Quantum  Network 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Start building  quantum  apps today   Bring  quantum  apps to life with an expansive open-source tool set, deep integration with your favorite development environments, and a growing open-source community. 
 
 
 Quantum  Development Kit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 See how organizations like yours use  quantum  solutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As a startup, we have access to  quantum  chemistry package, which enables us to now leverage all of these underlying functionalities in simulating  quantum  chemistry. 
   
 —Arman Zaribafiyan, Head of  Quantum   Computing , 1QBit 
 
 
 
 Learn more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Microsoft is providing optimized  quantum  inspired algorithms to really solve our hard problems, using them to make MRI faster, cheaper, and more efficient to help people all over the world with this technology. 
   
 —Mark Griswold, PhD, Professor, Radiology, Case Western Reserve University 
 
 
 
 Learn more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We are delighted to work with Microsoft to bring the revolutionary power of  quantum   computing  to Dubai... to make Dubai the smartest and happiest city in the world. 
   
 —HE Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer, Managing Director and CEO of DEWA 
 
 
 
 Learn more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Microsoft  Quantum  Development Kit definitely makes it much easier to go from the chemistry product specification to the output that we care about. 
   
 —Sriram Krishnamoorthy, Systems Software and Applications Team Lead, PNNL 
 
 
 
 Learn more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 By focusing on how we would model the problems on  quantum  computers… we are able to work with Microsoft to redefine the problems and speed up our solutions on existing hardware. 
   
 —John Haley, CEO, Willis Towers Watson 
 
 
 
 Learn more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ford brings the expertise from the problem areas and where the value really is for us, and Microsoft brings the  Quantum  expertise and the team together to help formulate a solution. 
   
 —Patrick Ellis, Manager, Ford Research 
 
 
 
 Learn more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About  quantum   computing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is  quantum   computing ?   Quantum   computing  applies the properties of  quantum  physics to process information. Operating with nanoscale components at temperatures colder than intergalactic space,  quantum   computing  has the potential to solve some of the world’s toughest challenges.  Quantum  computers will enable new discoveries in the areas of healthcare, energy, environmental systems, smart materials, and beyond. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How do  quantum  computers work?   In  quantum   computing , a  quantum  bit is a unit of  quantum  information—like a classical bit. Where classical bits hold a single binary value such as a 0 or 1, a qubit can hold both values at the same time. When multiple qubits act coherently, they can process multiple options simultaneously. This allows them to process information in a fraction of the time it would take even the fastest nonquantum systems. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What are the benefits of  quantum   computing ?   Where current computers would require billions of years to solve the world’s most challenging problems, a  quantum  computer would find a solution in minutes, hours, or days.  Quantum   computing  will enable researchers to develop new catalysts and materials, improve medicines, accelerate advances in artificial intelligence, and answer fundamental questions about the origins of our universe. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Empowering the  quantum  revolution   The Microsoft  Quantum  Network is a community of pioneers collaborating with Microsoft to learn about, research, and launch  quantum   computing  applications and hardware. Network partners receive access to  quantum  development resources, exclusive Azure services and workshops on  quantum  programming and algorithm development. 
 
 
 Learn more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read the latest news and blogs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 New physics discovery from the Microsoft  Quantum  team: topology with a twist   
 Read more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Azure  Quantum  updates at Microsoft Build   
 Read more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Microsoft  Quantum  researchers pin down largest  quantum  speedup for unstructured problems   
 Read more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stay up to date with the Microsoft  Quantum  newsletter 
 
 
 Sign up 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Follow us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share this page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 BackToTop 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What's new 
 
 
 Surface Go 2 
 
 
 Surface Book 3 
 
 
 Microsoft 365 
 
 
 Surface Pro X 
 
 
 Windows 10 apps 
 
 
 
 
 Microsoft Store 
 
 
 Account profile 
 
 
 Download Center 
 
 
 Microsoft Store support 
 
 
 Returns 
 
 
 Order tracking 
 
 
 Store locations 
 
 
 Virtual workshops and training 
 
 
 Microsoft Store Promise 
 
 
 
 
 Education 
 
 
 Microsoft in education 
 
 
 Office for students 
 
 
 Office 365 for schools 
 
 
 Deals for students & parents 
 
 
 Microsoft Azure in education 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Enterprise 
 
 
 Azure 
 
 
 AppSource  
 
 
 Automotive 
 
 
 Government 
 
 
 Healthcare 
 
 
 Manufacturing 
 
 
 Financial services 
 
 
 Retail 
 
 
 
 
 Developer 
 
 
 Microsoft Visual Studio 
 
 
 Windows Dev Center 
 
 
 Developer Network 
 
 
 TechNet 
 
 
 Microsoft developer program 
 
 
 Channel 9 
 
 
 Office Dev Center 
 
 
 Microsoft Garage 
 
 
 
 
 Company 
 
 
 Careers 
 
 
 About Microsoft 
 
 
 Company news 
 
 
 Privacy at Microsoft 
 
 
 Investors 
 
 
 Diversity and inclusion 
 
 
 Accessibility 
 
 
 Security 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 English (United States) 
 
 
 
 Sitemap 
 
 
 Contact Microsoft 
 
 
 Privacy & cookies  
 
 
 Terms of use 
 
 
 Trademarks 
 
 
 Safety & eco 
 
 
 About our ads 
 
 © Microsoft 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 