 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  http://www.abundance-and-happiness.com/quantum-physics.html  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-30  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start quantum   physics HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  HTML 
 Quantum Physics, Spirituality And Your Thoughts, Beliefs and Emotions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  start: tool_blocks.navbar  Home Publications The Miracle of You Abundance E-Zine Inspiring Articles E.J. Archives Your Journey Success Blueprint Self Actualization Universal Laws Consciousness Mind Power Power Of Thought Quantum   Physics Success Principles Science of Success Health and Wealth Inspiration Galore Products The 7 Hidden Keys Guided Meditation Success Courses Success Coaches Personal Coaching Free Resources About Us Meet Chuck Chuck's Friends Our Company Contact Us Misc Happiness Blog Giving Back Humor Site Map Donations Legal Stuff Visitor Comments Conscious Warriors  end: tool_blocks.navbar  
  start: tool_blocks.rssit  
 
 [ ? ]Subscribe To This Site 
 
 
 
 
  end: tool_blocks.rssit  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Quantum   Physics 
 Quantum   Physics , Spirituality And Your Life Experience : They're Not As Different Nor as Separate As You May Currently Think And Believe. Your Thoughts, Beliefs  and Emotions Shape Your World. Now You'll  FINALLY  Understand Why in a Very Clear, Concise,  Simplified  and Profoundly Empowering Kind of Way!!   
 
 Quantum   Physics , once understood not only can, but will, open your eyes  to an unseen world few are aware of. Once you're aware, you'll be enabled  and perhaps empowered to see the importance of consciously aligning your  thoughts, emotions and actions with your heartfelt desires, making the term  Heaven on Earth more than just a nice thought or novel idea, simply  because, You CAN...No...I mean you REALLY CAN, should you "choose" to. 
 Quantum   Physics  Demystifies The Process Of Creation and Reveals The Simplicity of Conscious, Intentional and Purposeful (as Well as Unconscious and Unintentional)  Manifestation   Although you may or may not yet be aware of how a 2 word phrase such as  Quantum   Physics  can enhance EVERY aspect of your life, it CAN and in fact WILL...should you allow it to. If you will "allow it" and read along for just a bit, you'll SEE just how profoundly and transformationally true that is. What exactly is  Quantum   Physics ?  Basically, it's a highly specialized (and seemingly weird) form of science that, unlike Newtonian  physics , studies, explores and explains how everything in the tangible world comes into existence.  Quantum  Physicists (the really smart and sometimes insightful guys who make the science of  quantum   physics  possible) basically explore the nature of reality beginning at the subatomic (unseen) level. The fact is, as  quantum  physicists have discovered, it determines EVERY aspect of reality, including but not limited to ALL aspects of  your  life. They certainly don't have it anywhere close to fully "figured out." But what they have figured out and know, is where ALL physical things, whether events, conditions, and circumstances as well as everything in the entire Universe stem from. Put simply,  quantum   physics  breaks physical things down into their purest and most basic form,  attempting to discover the Ultimate Source from where they (which includes everything) are derived. An on the surface look, from a strictly intellectual vantage point, with regard to what  Quantum   Physics  is and what  quantum  physicists do, may and perhaps does, sound a bit ho hum or perhaps even, really complex. But when you become aware of and combine the underlying conclusions that  Quantum   Physics  reveals, with what the mystics, sages, masters and philosophers since antiquity have to say about life and how our lives come to be the kind and quality that they are, (whatever that entails) is not only PROFOUNDLY exciting, it CAN prove to be the catalyst that transforms your entire life. EVERY aspect of your life too!! How could  Quantum   Physics  and what scientists have discovered possibly do that?   In SO MANY ways actually. Whether you're aware of it or not,  Quantum   Physics , Spirituality, your thoughts, emotions, and success (or the lack of) in life, are ALL closely intertwined and interconnected. In fact as modern day  quantum   physics  has discovered and are constantly expanding upon, they and EVERYTHING else are much more interconnected than MOST realize.   Unless you have been exposed to the science of  physics  at some point, just the mention of  Quantum   Physics  may seem a bit overwhelming. But it's really not as intimidating or hard to understand as you may think. In fact, as you'll soon discover, it's your thoughts and beliefs concerning  Quantum   Physics  that makes it easy or difficult to understand. If that statement seems a little puzzling at this point, rest assured, it won't be once you've finished reading this article and develop a deeper understanding of how it is that  Quantum   Physics  (more specifically,  Quantum  Mechanics) determines the outcomes in your life, everything in the world around you, as well as things you can't even see yet. What's better, when you understand what  Quantum  science has discovered, you CAN without question, become far more adept and on purpose in determining the kind and quality of your future...FOR SURE.        Although  Quantum   Physics  can be (and often is) perceived as being a bit complex on the surface, just  developing a basic understanding of  Quantum  Mechanics will prove to solidify what is already known at some level of your awareness  with regard to how the various events, conditions, and circumstances  in your day to day life come into being. As  Quantum   Physics  has revealed, you play a MUCH BIGGER and far more important role in determining what your day to day life becomes than you might think, let alone understand, which is WHY I've chosen to share what I've personally discovered regarding how real, true and factual that is.   Regardless of your current religious preference (or lack of) or level of scientific knowledge, these basics concerning  Quantum   Physics  will enable you to construct a solid and unshakable foundation of "awareness", for beginning to build and experience your life consciously and purposefully in a way that you desire. For me personally, familiarizing myself with  Quantum   Physics  played a MAJOR role in enabling me to better understand how and why various "growth lessons" that I had experienced earlier in life really happened, which resulted in developing a much deeper and stronger "Belief" or "Faith" in my own personal ability to begin consciously creating the events, conditions and circumstances that I desired.  Having begun my search for deeper meaning and understanding many years ago, you could say, I've walked a lot of paths. It all began by seeking answers to some of the seemingly complex and unanswerable questions pertaining to life in general, via  structured religion. Then after a time, I  discovered Spirituality (yes there is a  HUGE  difference) and finally discovering and exploring  Quantum   Physics .  I can assure you from what can be best described as a deep "Inner Knowing", after experiencing what can only be described as a series of "Very Profound Experiences" of a very up close and personal nature, that science, spirituality as well as EVERYTHING else in life, is intricately tied together. Developing an understanding of all of them will arm you with an unshakable faith, capable of manifesting dramatic and in many cases seemingly miraculous life changes. That I KNOW, after having done just that in ways that I didn't even believe were possible, prior to SEEING it with my own eyes.     In fact I can say without any apprehension whatsoever, that  Quantum   Physics  has proven to be the "icing on the cake" and one of the greatest and most important discoveries that I have EVER made in relation to enhancing my overall awareness in a tangible kind of way. Perhaps the greatest benefit is that  Quantum   physics  both solidified and enhanced my beliefs in DRAMATIC ways concerning what the most enlightened spiritual teachers have taught for thousands of years. The combination of my "profound experiences", which led to a strictly spiritually focused quest and eventually led to exploring  quantum   physics , proved to deepen my understanding exponentially, as well as greatly enhance all that I had gained looking for meaningful answers during that predominantly focused spiritual quest.   So in the simplest and most down to earth way that I can, with the hope that a basic understanding of  Quantum   Physics  will assist you in the same way, I'll share what the science of  Quantum   Physics  has discovered with you, in a way that is easy to grasp, understand and digest.  Through this new-found understanding, I hope that you too can fully grasp and develop the awareness of the  vitally important and crucial  role  that discoveries made  through the science of  Quantum   Physics  play in relation to YOUR life experience and the physical outcomes that happen as a result.   Let's begin with....     The Nitty Gritty Basics Of  Quantum   Physics   Although it's not necessary to have a deep understanding of  Quantum   Physics , a basic understanding will assist you greatly in establishing the belief (faith) of how your life unfolds. Armed with that, should you choose to, you'll be enabled and more consciously empowered to further develop your ability to  quickly and dramatically  improve the overall quality of your life whether physically, financially, relationally, emotionally or spiritually. At the conclusion of this article you will have developed a much deeper understanding as to how discoveries made through  Quantum   Physics  can and do play an ENORMOUS role in shaping each and every event, condition and circumstance that YOU experience in YOUR personal life, and what you can begin to do immediately to  consciously and purposefully use what you discover to enhance your own quality of life. First, let's take a look at what  quantum   physics  is...     What Is the Difference Between  Quantum   Physics  and the Kind of  Physics  Traditionally Taught in Our Education  Systems?   In a phrase, there's a  HUGE  difference. When I say "a HUGE difference", I mean a HUGE, HUGE, HUGE,  difference. Infinitely so in fact. And actually, the kind of  physics  that's taught in traditional education systems has been LONG outdated. I won't get off on that here. Quantum   Physics  is the study of how, what and why everything that makes up the universe as well as everything in it, both the seen as well as the unseen, is derived. Unlike traditional  physics  that, for the most part, looks at life, us, the world and everything in it as a physical machine of sorts,  quantum   physics  has revealed and clearly understands that it's ALL energy, or "light",  as some  quantum  physicists refer to it. The "label" doesn't matter really, they're one and the same. Bottom line  Quantum   Physics  is a detailed study of what is known as  Quantum  Mechanics which determines how EVERYTHING in the cosmos has come to exist, beginning at the atomic and sub-atomic levels. More simply put, it is an in depth study of the building blocks of the ENTIRE Universe, the SEEN and the UNSEEN. Basically what  Quantum   Physics  consists of, is analyzing things that are experienced in life in various forms (as well as non-form) and tracing them back to where they originated and/or  were derived from which, as you will soon discover, consists of pure energy or "light." The purest form of energy according to the really "intellectually intelligent" scientists who study  Quantum   Physics  is what they refer to as  wave forms of probability. These "probabilities" aren't limited in any way, shape or form. In fact, they exist within an Infinite field of probabilities . Yea, I KNOW that sounds really complex but put simply, this field of INFINITE probability, consists of any Infinite number of things that could, will, may or may not EVER happen. EVERY probability whether past, present or future begins and exists as a wave form. They're still trying to figure out where these "wave forms" come from and what enables them to exist at all, but they do KNOW that they exist. Not to get sidetracked but do you know what's  REALLY  COOL, and to me, equally FUNNY about that?   The really cool and REALLY funny thing is, as those who have personally experienced what I'll call a transcendental experience (aka...a really profound and mind expanding experience of a very up close and personal kind) ALREADY know, although many of these extremely "intellectually intelligent"  quantum  physicists who are trying their best and their hardest to figure out this field and what makes it tick at even deeper levels, will  NEVER  be able to fully figure it out. How so? The reason is simple. It's because the Infinite field they're  exploring is just that...INFINITE and far more expansive than  Quantum   Physics  or ANY  quantum  physicist will EVER fully know or understand in an intellectual kind of way. To KNOW how TRUE that is, you MUST  experience  it for yourself in a very PROFOUND and literally indescribable kind of way. The really great news is, that you CAN...EVERYONE can, yet not everyone "chooses" to. Perhaps only because MOST don't know that you can. Not to get sidetracked, but  meditation  is the vehicle that enables you to enter into such an experience. You definitely didn't learn about THAT in traditional education. Although the potential reasons for that are many, that's another story for another time.   Back to the differences in  quantum   physics  and traditional  physics ...aka Newtonian  physics .     As most everyone discovered in elementary school, middle school and/or high school, everything that you can see in the physical world is made up of atoms and molecules. Quantum   Physics  goes a few steps beyond molecules and has taken these tiny little wonders, broken them down even further and developed the ability to study and better understand the various things that make them up.  These are known as subatomic particles.  When these subatomic particles are broken down and analyzed even further,  quantum  physicists have discovered that they are made up of additional  sub-atomic particles that exist within sub-atomic particles. Let's not get too deep. In fact let's stop there to keep it as simple and easy to understand as possible. Here's a simple breakdown of how things look beginning with molecules....   The next step down from a molecule is an atom. The next step down from an atom are subatomic particles which consist of Photons, Leptons, Electrons, Neutrons, Quarks, etc. There's more, MUCH more, but  that's as far as we need to go to personally utilize, see and experience the IMMENSE benefits that can be experienced  based on a simple understanding of  Quantum   Physics .   At this point, the discovery of subatomic particles is as far as  Quantum   Physics  has been able to go...to the subatomic level. Although there is much more to discover, (an Infinite amount of more) you'll soon find that what has been discovered to this point is all that you'll need to know to begin making dramatic changes in your life. Through correct and "conscious" application of what you are about to discover, you  can  become enabled and empowered to achieve levels of LIMITLESS success, fulfillment and harmony in literally EVERY aspect of your life, although MOST  "believe"  doing that is out of reach. It's  NOT , although by the same token, as we move forward and gain a deeper understanding of  quantum   physics ...mainly how  quantum  physicists have arrived a their conclusions, it will become CRYSTAL CLEAR as well as BLATANTLY OBVIOUS why BELIEF; whether a belief that you CAN, or CAN'T be, do or have something ensures that you ALWAYS get to be right...unconditionally.   For the sake of not turning this into a  Quantum   Physics  lecture, let's get into the REALLY GOOD stuff that reveals how "real, true, practical and SIMPLE that is.....   First let's look at what a few brilliant, paradigm shifting  scientific pioneers discovered, which would lead into today's evolved understanding known as  Quantum   Physics ....   Three Men, Three Amazing Discoveries That Raised The Awareness Of The World Concerning  Their Individual Ability To Consciously And Purposefully Create Their Life Experience     In 1925 An Incredible Discovery Was Made.   E=MC2 : Energy (aka Light) = EVERYTHING   A huge and amazing discovery which took place in 1925 and has become well known today as E=MC2, was discovered by a scientist named Albert Einstein. This new world changing discovery would dramatically change the views of the scientific community and what was previously believed to be true in relation to what truly makes up our world.  To that point, mankind believed and adhered to a very limited view of how all things came to be. This previous understanding was called Newtonian  Physics . Based on Newtonian  physics  it was believed that all things just happened as a result of gravity.    Newtonian  Physics  basically, was Issac Newton's theory based on the late 17th century belief that the Universe was made up of what was believed at the time to be solid objects, (atoms) which were attracted towards each other by gravity. This theory was extended in the 19th century to include the  structures of atoms (also known as matter) as being the fundamental building blocks of nature. According to this limited Newtonian  Physics  view, it was believed that atoms were of a solid nature. In other words they believed that  electrons, protons, etc. that each atom consisted of, was a solid mass or solid physical object.     What Einstein's world changing discover would prove was that these atoms, could be broken down, examined and analyzed further. What they discovered is that the subatomic particles which collectively formed the atoms were pure energy. (light)  At that time though, Einstein honestly believed that this energy he had discovered existed in the form of particles, aka matter. In other words they had an "appearance" of being solid. Although he was "partially" correct, his theory differed from another noted physicist of that day, named Thomas Young. Young believed that energy existed as a wave form and was NOT particles at all. Ok, so at this point we have one noted physicist saying energy is waves and another saying that energy is particles. So WHO in the heck are we going to believe???   We'll get to that answer in just a minute, but based on the findings thus far, at that point in time, it was at least agreed upon, that ALL things were comprised of and existed because of energy. What does all that have to do with you and your life?   This is a REALLY crucial part of the whole  Quantum   Physics  thing, so do yourself a favor and do your very best to "get this"...REALLY "get this!!       Everything that exists in the entire cosmos, which is  experienced with the five physical senses or otherwise, from the infinitely large to the infinitely small, from the macroscopic to the microscopic, went far beyond just the theory of trillions of solid atoms being attracted together by way of gravity as Newtonian  Physics  pointed out. Although Newtonian  Physics  was and still is "partially correct" from a strictly physical and finite material world view,  Quantum   Physics  provides a MUCH DEEPER, profound, far more exciting and certainly more empowering understanding as to where all this "Physical Stuff" (matter) is derived from.   Einstein's discovery took the whole "partially true" Newtonian  Physics  theory a step further and determined that these atoms and everything that they joined together to form, including the  sub-atomic particles which made atoms, atoms, at their core, are comprised of nothing more or less than energy. Without getting into all the complex equations and specifics of how Einstein came up with this formula, which would soon prove to change the entire course of history, here is a visual display of what the formula E=MC2 looks like and how it breaks down from the infinitely large to the infinitely small.       E=MC2   Cosmos --> Universe --> Galaxy --> Earth --> Individuals --> Organ Systems --> Cells --> Molecules --> Atoms --> Subatomic Particles  =  Energy (light)     The bottom line is, Einstein's discovery proved that ALL things broken down to their most basic form consist of the same stuff. What is this stuff?  Pure Energy and it's this One Energy which makes up ALL things.  ALL   THINGS !!   In other words, there is nothing that energy (or Light) is not.   Looked at in another way, you could say that we exist in what could be considered to be an "infinite" field of  quantum  energy soup, just as an individual drop of water exists independently yet at the same time "collectively" within the ocean. You could also say the drop of water is an integral part of the One body of water we call the ocean. Now that may not mean much to you at this point but stay with me because it get's REALLY exciting and you'll see in a very clear and PROFOUND way how it DOES pertain to not only you, me and EVERYONE else, but EVERY THING, including EACH and EVERY aspect of your life...bar nothing. This is truly "Life Transforming" stuff we're talking about here!   As a side note... It's interesting that with the amazing and potentially life changing discoveries made as a result of  Quantum   Physics  over the last century, that in many of the public school systems of today, the long outdated theory of Newtonian  Physics  is still being taught. Hmmmm...kinda makes you wonder why, doesn't it?   Without a basic understanding of  Quantum   Physics  you might think that there are different forms of energy. In a strictly physical kind of way, that's true...to a degree. In a tangible, Newtonian world kind of way, there are varying forms of energy. There's the kind of energy that powers your home, energy that makes you get out of bed in the morning and keeps you going throughout the day, energy that fuels your car, etc. Although they appear in a physical sense to be varying types of energy at the tangible level, due to the varying structures and vibrational frequencies of the subatomic particles (and the varying formations of these same sub-atomic particles which comprise them), when analyzed by  Quantum  Physicists and broken down into their purest form they too, at their core are all made up of this "One Energy." So what does all that mean and how does it apply to you, life and what you desire in life? Bear with me, we're  almost  there....a few more facts first.   The bottom line is this.  Everything  that exists, whether nature, sound, colors, oxygen, the wind, thoughts, emotions, the chair your sitting in, your house, your car, your physical body, the stars, your dog, your ability to see, hear, smell, taste, touch, etc. etc., exists and is only made possible as a result of this  very   same  energy . ONE and the same energy. Now before I reveal and get to the granddaddy discovery of ALL the potential benefits, let's get back to the disagreement between Einstein and Young regarding energy being waves or particles. This since resolved disagreement (which we'll get to the profound and empowering details of soon) is known today as wave/particle duality. This is where  Quantum   Physics  gets REALLY exciting, potentially transformational and what some might "perceive" to be either REALLY REALLY AWESOME, or REALLY REALLY weird!!  If it seems weird to you, it's ONLY because the "perception of weirdness" stems from what we've been taught in traditional education venues. I'll assure you, that form of education only provides, at best, a very limited world view of a much greater and far more PROFOUND picture of how life unfolds.  And because it is so limited nature, it's also WHY so many "believe" that the events, conditions and circumstances that we each experience in life happen in a less than profound kind of way!! Quantum   Physics  is FAR different and far more expansive than ANYTHING learned in traditionalschool to this point...no doubt. We're getting there I PROMISE. Ok, back to wave/particle duality. To solve this wave/particle dilemma regarding energy, along comes another extremely brilliant scientist, Niels Bohr. Bohr  who was the Nobel Prize winner in 1922, who, through his work and study of subatomic structure, added a whole new twist to Einsteins theory regarding energy existing as particles. Unlike Einstein and Young, Niels Bohr believed...or at least had a strong "hunch" that energy could be both waves OR particles.   In fact Einstein and Bohr debated over this difference of opinion quite often for many years. What an empowering debate it turned out to be!!!  Based on work Bohr had done, he believed that matter (particles) could be separately analyzed as having several contradictory properties. In other words, that's scientific mumbo jumbo that says energy COULD BE both waves AND particles. At that point though, it still wasn't proven, although the fact that everything is made up of ENERGY,  was .   To put it another way, ANYTHING and EVERYTHING which exists in the entire cosmos, when broken down and analyzed into it's purest and most basic form, utilizing sophisticated scientific tools and instruments,  is merely a vibrating frequency of energy which joins together with energies of the same harmonious frequency to form what we "perceive" to be reality. As a result, that, and that alone, determines what we experience as individuals in the physical world.   But it gets even BETTER than that!!   With that being the case why haven't you become aware of it until now? If  Quantum   Physics  has existed and these facts known for that long of a period, why wouldn't you already know about it?  Well...Unless you have taken an advanced college course in  quantum   physics  you couldn't know about it. Why? Simply because you have been inundated with many "partial truths" and in many cases, programmed, conditioned and limited by totally false beliefs and understandings of how things "truly work" since you were a child.  In fact as mentioned above, most public education systems  today in many parts of the world still teach the long since outdated Newtonian  Physics  theory in their schools. Here's where the discoveries made via  Quantum   Physics  become PROFOUND and the "seemingly complex" puzzle pieces start coming together   Think about the implications here for just a minute. If ALL things in existence at their core are comprised of this same vibrating mass of pure energy, regardless if it's waves or particles...and I do mean ALL things, both the seen as well as the unseen, INCLUDING YOU and ME,  that means that what the most enlightened teachers in the history of the world have taught and which spiritual texts have shown for thousands of years, is true. What is that "truth?" There are 3 obvious truths that come to my mind.   We  ARE  the "light of the world"  When we "decree a thing" the light  DOES  shine upon our ways, AND... We "Really and Truly Are, ONE!!" Take ALL the religious connotations out of it. This is about "spirituality and  quantum   physics ", NOT man made structured religion, which, in MANY cases, waters down and attempts to debunk the enormity and infinite nature of spirituality and  quantum   physics . Back to  quantum   physics ...   To make it a little easier to  grasp, eliminate the "perception" of everything you see as being solid and do your best to see it ALL existing as a continuously vibrating mass of energy. That's when you'll begin to comprehend and see that  ALL  things, including YOU, me, your neighbor, your doctor, your preacher, your teacher and everybody as well as EVERYTHING else, is nothing more than a vibrating mass of pure energy that is intricately interconnected to everything else... EVERYTHING  else.     Now if that has you feeling a little doubtful and uncomfortable at this point I fully understand. But stay with me for a few more paragraphs and it will all begin to make perfect sense.  These aren't MY findings or discoveries. It's not something that I've concocted out of thin air. This is PROVEN and well documented science discovered by Nobel Prize laureates and the truth concerning it has been around and taught in spiritual circles for countless thousands of years.  The scientific validation made possible through  Quantum   Physics ...the ability for scientists to observe and validate these ancient spiritual teachings in a physical sense, has been around for well OVER 90 years. Yet the sages, mystics and masters of the past have spoken of what  quantum  physicists have recently discovered regarding  quantum  mechanics and taught it for eons, way before the technology existed to prove it in a "tangible" and physical kind of way.  Hmmmm....pretty profound stuff don't you think? Believe it or not, it GETS even BETTER than that!! In fact as we progress a bit further I think you'll find that it provides some pretty insightful clues that things like the 6th sense, extra sensory perception etc. and  your individual ability to consciously and intentionally create DESIRED outcomes in YOUR life, are much more than some "way out there" theory.  What's more, for those who are open, willing and make the choice to "seek", will find that we ALL possess the gifts and have the ability to utilize these "esoteric" attributes anytime we choose to do so. It requires developing them in MOST cases, no doubt. But as  quantum  physicists have discovered and the Masters of the past KNEW, the ability (YOUR ability) to DO that is there...period. I haven't always KNOWN that...for sure. In fact, at one point, I "thought" that such things were "nonsense", as MANY still do today. Yet it's for the obvious reasons, which goes back to what we've "learned" to be true, which determines what we are "aware of" and believe. I still recall being approached with this "We Are One" concept many years ago as a young teen. Upon hearing it at the time, due to a lack of awareness and deeper understanding, stemming from  the  limited forms of traditional teachings that I had received, and a complete unawareness of  Quantum   Physics  and  Quantum  Mechanics altogether, I wholeheartedly believed that the person doing the sharing at the time must have had one to many encounters with some really potent hallucinogenic substance.  What I was personally "aware of" and believed prior to these "profound experiences" I mentioned earlier (which led to me venturing out beyond religion and traditional forms of education) and doing the exploratory work for myself, is that all these things I've shared were airy fairy woo woo nonsense. Not anymore!!   Many years and a number of "profound experiences" later, today I KNOW that the limited perceptions I held, were both unfounded and short sighted. As I have long since discovered, that conclusion was made and based only on a lack of awareness on my part as to how things TRULY work. That lack of awareness happened as a result of NOT being taught anything concerning  quantum   physics , or the far reaching possibilities which spirituality revealed, in either religion or the public schools that I attended. That combined with not taking the initiative to discover it for myself for many years, led to my obvious oblivion and ignorance. The reasons WHY are simple... I had ZERO idea that any such thing COULD BE discovered. But it CAN be and in fact, HAS been.   What I've since discovered, as a result of many years of extensive independent research, years of in depth study of both science, various religions and their texts, and much trial and error through personal experience, is that whoever it was that initially shared this "We are One" thing with me was absolutely 100% correct!! My hope is that by sharing what I discovered during this exploratory time with you, through both  Quantum   Physics  and my exploration of the spiritual aspects of life which I've discovered, that you will develop a deeper awareness based on my research and experiences and as a result not have to go through many of the "growth lessons" that I and so many others have experienced unnecessarily.  It doesn't matter which individual avenue you might choose to study, whether spirituality,  quantum   physics , the human physiology, the power of the human mind or through the simple observation of nature,  ALL  avenues will lead you to the very same conclusions. These conclusions are... ALL of these seemingly separate means of discover are intricately interconnected...EVERYTHING at it's core consists of pure energy and EVERYTHING, both the seen (physical) and the unseen (metaphysical) is intricately interconnected with EVERYTHING else at this level of causation which is a continuously vibrating mass of pure energy.   OK...I got a bit sidetracked. I do that when I get excited, so please forgive me.    Back on track with  Quantum   Physics  and what  quantum  physicists have discovered...     More specifically, back to Einsteins discovery of E=MC2......             "Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind." - Albert Einstein       Although Einstein's history making discover was amazing enough in and of itself, it wouldn't be long before another  even more amazing discovery  was made.  When Einstein first discovered this truth concerning energy, he came to the conclusion that even though all things were made of  energy, everything which happened or formed as a result of this energy, did so randomly without any individual interference or participation.  In other words he concluded that the events, conditions and circumstances which happened in the universe, happened as a result of some unchangeable and immutable external force.  He believed that things just "were the way they were" and that no one other than God, or whatever you perceive The Source to be, could mold, shape or change them. Here's where the discoveries made through  Quantum   Physics  get REALLY exciting and if you'll keep an open mind, you'll clearly understand that there does exist a form of power...unlimited and untainted power that you may not be aware of, which once understood and "consciously utilized", can quite literally transform your entire life!! No...I mean literally...EVERY SINGLE aspect of your life!!   Here's why...  As further scientific research and studies continued, differences of opinion arose among the  quantum  physicists of that day. One of these differences came from a man we've already mentioned, named Neils Bohr. Bohr believed that although Einsteins discover was "partially" correct, there was more to what Einstein had discovered which hadn't yet been revealed. Bohr felt that this energy wasn't necessarily particles at all but rather had the potential to take various forms. How right he was!!   Prior to this soon to be discovery by Bohr and some other  Quantum  physicists, it was believed, based on Einsteins discovery that energy existed as particles which when observed "appeared to be" a solid mass although it was only due to the high rate of vibration that subatomic particles create, giving them the "appearance" of solidity. In other words they weren't considered as "particles" like a grain of sand.  With Einstein believing that energy was particles, Young's belief that energy was waves and now Bohr's belief that energy could exist as a wave but also as particles, the scientific world remained divided.  As technology advanced, more equipment became available that enabled scientists to analyze and experiment with these wave/particles (or whatever they were) more closely. What was discovered as a result of this research and experimentation is that this energy, these subatomic particles DID consist of waves which behaved and  turned into particles.   Here's where  Quantum   Physics  get's REALLY hairy...   Could Albert Einstein, Thomas Young AND Neils Bohr ALL be right about energy??   Yes, and that's what is REALLY cool and even kind of freaky and hair raising about  Quantum   Physics ...weird even!!   Here's what turned the scientific community upside down, right side up and led to what  quantum  physicists understand about energy and  quantum   physics  today   In Brussels Belgium around 1927, Neils Bohr, some  quantum  physicists and some theorists joined together for the granddaddy of all experiments, which is now well known as the  "Copenhagen Interpretation."   Although Young was CERTAIN that energy was waves and Einstein was CERTAIN that this energy was particles, The Copenhagen Interpretation revealed that these subatomic particles weren't ONLY particles at all but rather existed as and consisted of wave forms and/or particles, but couldn't be both at the same time. Neils Bohr NAILED it!! In fact what the Copenhagen Interpretation revealed is that energy is waves and when ATTENTION is placed on it, all other probabilities collapse (wave forms) and a "particle" (matter) is formed. To give it more tangible and measurable value as it pertains to YOU... The thoughts and perceptions of the scientist doing the observing determined which one it was...waves or particles.   Because This Is  SO  Significant I REPEAT....   The subatomic particles (waves) being studied by the scientists responded to, transmuted and appeared as particles (matter) based on  the individual thought of the scientist who was studying it. In other words it was the scientists BELIEF, mode of  THINKING  and "perceptions" that determined which one it would be!!   In other words the energy being studied took form  immediately  based on the thoughts and beliefs of the scientist who was observing it. IF that scientist expected to see waves, he DID. If he believed he would see particles, he DID. The profound, empowering and hair raising conclusion is that energy is both WAVES and PARTICLES, but cannot be both at the same time. Are You GETTING THIS????? I mean REALLY getting it? If so, you'll begin "getting" how it can and does impact EVERY aspect of your life. Although these particles that are "transmuted" from these wave forms aren't really solid like you would think of a speck of dust or a granule of sand, when they were being observed, they would transmute from pure wave form into a highly intense vibration that took on the "appearance" of solidity. The "observation" of the scientist converted wave forms of "probability" into "particles" of matter.     It's also no wonder that Issac Newton came up with his conclusion. Since he was the only one studying these atoms, and his "belief" at the time was in alignment with them being solid, they DID appear solid based on his "Belief" concerning what they were. I'm going to repeat this again to make sure you REALLY "get this"... If a scientist studied this energy with the expectation (thought or belief) of seeing particles, particles were observed. If another scientist studied them with the expectation of seeing waves then waves were observed!!   The conclusion then was that this energy, these subatomic particles  acted  and responded in exact proportion to the "thoughts" and "beliefs"  that the scientist who was studying them had at that moment .   This discovery further proved to the scientists that anything and everything that exists in our world once existed as a wave (spiritual) and through individual observation and expectation was transformed into a particle (made physical) based only on what they THOUGHT and BELIEVED it would appear as!!    The obvious conclusion from this amazing sequence of events thanks to  quantum   physics  is that  YOUR  thoughts are also creative.  In other words this energy, these initial "wave forms" transmute into subatomic particles which are directly effected and TAKE FORM based on the thoughts and beliefs of the person thinking them.    As discovered in the laboratories, this energy, when observed,  acts in exact proportion to the way that it is "believed" that it will act and will provide a physical appearance based on the "perception" of the thinker. As these particles form they attract additional particles that harmonize with their vibrational match which transmutes from the " quantum  field" and become the physical things that can be seen and observed in physical form...in the Newtonian  Physics  world of matter and STUFF. Is the hair on the back or your neck standing up yet??   Now to take it even a step further, if that isn't amazing (and almost eerie) enough, something even more amazing was discovered by Max Planck which has since been named  Quantum  Entanglement .  Don't worry, it's much simpler than it sounds. What scientists discovered as a result, is that these sub-atomic particles of energy when broken in half (separated) in a laboratory setting have the ability to communicate with each other and that communication is received immediately from one to the other, with ZERO regard to space and time as we know it, REGARDLESS of how far apart they may be.  Unlike our voices when we communicate, the sound of which takes time to travel, this communication, (vibration) was received by one from the other at precisely the same time regardless of how far away they are from each other.   In other words.....   This communication between energy is  NOT  subject to time and space as we understand it!!!!   This totally blows away the "old" Newtonian  Physics  theory that nothing can travel faster than the speed of light. Energy doesn't NEED to travel...it's already interconnected with all other energy in One place simultaneously.   There is no PLACE to travel to!!   A projection of energy in the U.S. can and does effect energy around the world instantaneously!! So what does this mean? It means that EVERYTHING in the entire cosmos is nothing but a huge vibrating ball of interconnected  infinite energy, which has the ability to communicate into infinity with no regard to space and time, and that what this energy joins together to form is based only on individual THOUGHT!!! Even the U.S. Army conducted experiments and through the work of a scientist named Cleve Baxter, has since validated this more recent discovery by taking a DNA sample from a man's mouth and as they manipulated his emotions through various visual productions on a TV while observing the DNA with sophisticated equipment, they discovered that the DNA responded and reacted immediately to the emotions of the man who it was taken from without ANY regard to space and time!! Although the Army ended it's research there, Dr. Baxter later performed the same experiment with the subject and the DNA hundreds of miles apart. Even when separated from the man by several hundred miles, the outcome was the same. The DNA responded without ANY regard to space and time.  Now that you have a little deeper understanding of  Quantum   Physics , you're probably wondering what does all this have to do with you and what can you hope to gain from it that will enable you to begin using it to experience Abundance, Happiness and success in your own life?    Just as the subatomic particles took whatever form the scientist studying them expected them to take based on their thoughts, the events, conditions, and circumstances that make up YOUR reality take shape as you expect and believe they will!!  To make it more personal and bring it closer to home, as  Quantum   Physics  has shown,  YOUR  THOUGHTS, BELIEFS and PERCEPTIONS concerning any and every event, condition or circumstance determine how your life experience will unfold in the physical world     Let me put it another way....     Your thoughts, (which are also energy) which are determined by the quality of your beliefs, which in turn form your perceptions, are broadcast outward into the infinite field of "wave" energy much like a radio frequency, transformed from waves (spiritual realm) to particles (matter) and join together with additional energies which vibrate at a harmonious frequency and collectively join to shape what you come to see and experience in physical form in the physical world.  YOUR  physical world.  You quite literally have the ability to mold and shape the various areas of your life, based on how you choose to think, believe and feel!!    Just as the mystics and masters have shared for thousands of years, that is how our world was created to operate. Regardless of what you may currently believe to be true, you ARE NOT the victim of some capricious set of external events, conditions and circumstances.  You are quite literally the creator of your reality!!   You are the artist that paints the picture. You are the producer and director of your own movie. If you want to change the scene on the canvas you only need use a different brush. If you don't like the scenes that are being played out in your movie you only need change the script which is responsible for creating them. If you desire to change the events, conditions, and circumstances in your life you only need change the thoughts, beliefs and emotions that are responsible for bringing them into and making them your reality. In a nutshell.....     Whatever you think about and believe to be true regardless if those beliefs are based on "real truth" or "perceived truth" are what determines how your life will unfold. Quantum   Physics  has shown us that there exists no such thing as "untruth" only physical experiences in each area of our life which are formed based on our individual "perceptions" of truth.     Quantum   physics  tells us that it is the act of observing an object (events, conditions and circumstances) that causes it to be there and the outcome is based only on our choice and how we observe it. An object cannot and does not exist independently of its observer! Put another way there is no "objective reality."   The  Quantum  Field is an "Infinite" field of potential. Anything and everything that has, does or will exist in the Newtonian world, begins as a wave in this " quantum  field" and is transformed into the physical realm, limited only by what can be conceived as truth by the observer!! Who is this observer? YOU!! Let's look at it in a more personal way...     If you believe at some level, whether consciously or subconsciously, that money is difficult to come by, the projected energy emitted and broadcast will harmonize with energy of a harmonious frequency in wave form, transmute into particles which attract additional particles that harmonize with it and your life will reflect that of money being difficult to come by.   By the same token if you believe that money flows to you effortlessly and maintain the conscious and subconscious beliefs regarding that, you will find that money becomes much more easy to acquire. Taken a step further, if you can conceive and believe in the materialization of your BIGGEST hopes dreams and desires, they already exist as a wave in the  quantum  field (which is INFINITE in nature) as a probability of existence only awaiting YOU to make them real.   As  Quantum   Physics  has proven it is YOU who are responsible for WHATEVER outcomes you are experiencing in your life.   It  REALLY   IS  That Simple!!             "All matter originates and exists only by virtue of a force... We must assume behind this force the existence of a conscious and intelligent Mind. This Mind is the matrix of all matter." - Max Planck     Ok, we've covered a lot of ground and although your head may be spinning and emotions running high, I encourage you to do your own due diligence and attempt to dis-prove what we have covered here. I don't expect you to, want you to, and hope that you won't, believe a single thing I say. I would much rather that you find out for yourself through your own due diligence and then put what you find to work and begin changing the life experience that you have had to this point if you should choose to do so.   For some this deeper understanding concerning  Quantum   Physics  combined with a side by side look at     
 Spiritually based teachings   
 will be enough to grasp the undeniable correlation between what  Quantum   Physics  has discovered and what the greatest, wisest and most enlightened teachers in the history of the world have taught for thousands and thousands of years.   Now, understanding the basics of  Quantum   Physics  and  Quantum  Mechanics, all that you need to do to implement that infinite kind of power into your life is to, first of all, develop the belief that it's true (and based on my understanding, perception and experiences thus far, it is) and second begin to "consciously" put it to work in your own life and you will become empowered to change those events, conditions and circumstances that you currently find to be unpleasant.   Regardless of how deeply you may search you will find that it is 100% accurate 100% 0f the time WITHOUT FAIL, and that your life experiences happen as a result of how you think and believe they will, whether at a conscious or subconscious level.   Modern day  Quantum   Physics  fully explains beyond any doubt that your thoughts are the things that group together and collapse energy packets, change those thoughts from a probability into a "particle" (physical matter) in a given place and time and create your life experience, whether it be physically, financially, relationally, emotionally or spiritually. Put another way... Everything  in your life...in the entire world in fact is the result of the kind and quality of your " Consciousness ." Your life will unfold perfectly, precisely and with unwavering certainty, just as you "believe" that it will.   For those that may have any religious background whatsoever, you will discover if you choose to delve deeply enough that what has been discovered by modern day science is precisely what the great spiritual teachers of the world have shared and attempted to get their followers to understand for thousands upon thousands of years.   The conclusions that have been arrived at thus far, through the study of  Quantum   Physics  as well as more recent discoveries relating to "cellular memories", aligns perfectly with what ALL the major  religions of the world have always taught in some form.  "As a man thinketh, so is he." As you "believe" so shall you receive."   "Now faith is the substance of things "hoped for" the evidence of things "not seen."   "Whatsoever ye desire when ye pray "believe" that ye receive and it shall be given to you."   For those that choose to, that is what we will cover next. The Spiritual Reality and how it "interconnects" and fits in perfectly with all of this  Quantum   Physics  stuff.   The bottom line is this...   You have been provided the inalienable right of free will and given the ability to choose what you will do or not do in EVERY aspect of your life. You can choose to investigate  Quantum   Physics , delve more deeply into what has been shared here and discover it as truth for yourself, or continue to create your life unconsciously. You can choose to remain as the mass majority does, fully believing you are a victim or creature of circumstance, or consciously align and harmonize your actions (thoughts and beliefs) with the greatest creative Force in the Universe and become a conscious creator (or if you prefer, a co-creator) of those circumstances.    That is a choice only you can make. You and you alone are responsible for the events, conditions and circumstances that make up your life. Whether or not you choose to discover and accept it, is also your choice. We have ALL been provided the inalienable right of free will to think and believe as WE choose. Discover it, understand it,  "believe" it, and discover how to "consciously implement" that understanding and your life will transform into whatever you "believe" that it can.   Whatever choices you choose to make both today as well as in the future, it is our sincere and heartfelt hope for you that those choices might lead you one step closer to a life experience of Joy, Fulfillment, Inner Peace and Limitless Prosperity in each and every area of your life. What we choose to refer to as Abundance and Happiness. For Further Understanding and Research   More recent discoveries made thanks to modern day  Quantum   Physics  is quickly transforming our world in an extremely exciting and positive way. If you're interested in discovering and finding out more with regard to  quantum   physics  and even newer discoveries regarding "cellular memories" and how they directly impact your life, be sure to listen to this  
 highly entertaining and informative interview 
 with cellular biologist and best selling author of The Biology Of Belief, Dr. Bruce Lipton PHD., and discover how 95% PLUS of ALL  health issues in the world are related to your thoughts and beliefs and what you can begin to do immediately to 
 supercharge your immune system 
 enabling your body to heal itself safely and naturally based on this new understanding provided through the breakthrough discoveries made thanks to  quantum   physics .    This interview will provide you with a much deeper understanding of not only how "cellular memory" effects the physical aspects relating to your health, but the 2nd interview provided in the links below will make it crystal clear as to how these same "cellular memories" can literally effect, positively or negatively, EVERY aspect of your life including your level of success and fulfillment.    
 Follow this link to gain free immediate access to Dr Lipton's interview Interview With Dr Alex Loyd and Dr Ben Johnson     You'll find 
 this interview with Dr. Alex Loyd and Dr. Ben Johnson 
 ( featured on the blockbuster DVD, The Secret) to be extremely informative and enlightening as well and provide a much deeper understanding as to what you can do to begin producing desired results in your life by changing your beliefs at a cellular level.  
 Follow this link to gain free instant access to Dr Loyd and Dr Johnson Science cannot solve the ultimate mystery of nature. And that is because, in the last analysis, we ourselves are a part of the mystery that we are trying to solve. - Max Planck               How Can  YOU  Use The Knowledge Gained Through  Quantum   Physics  To Turn YOUR Life Into An Experience Of Vibrant Health, Harmony, Fulfillment and Success?   It's Quite Simple Really   Once You Know How 
 Your Search Is Over...Now At Last You Will 
 I'm Finished With  Quantum   Physics Take Me To The Science Of Success Index 
 
 I'm Finished With  Quantum   Physics Take Me To The Double Slit Experiment Video 
 
 Take Me To Spiritual References 
 
 Take Me To  The Consciousness Page 
 
 Take Me To The Abundance and Happiness Home Page 
 
 Site Map 
 
   Each of the resources recommended in the  Quantum   Physics  article and throughout Abundance-and-Happiness.com have been personally tested and approved by the founder as a credible and effective means of accomplishing it's intended purpose. Any and all guarantees are handled through the company that provides the resource. Copyright  2005-2018, Abundance-and-Happiness.com The  Quantum   Physics  article and all content on Abundance-and-Happiness.com is strictly prohibited from copy or reproduction in any form without the express written consent of the author Chuck Danes and/or Enlightened Journey Enterprises. All Rights Reserved Worldwide. End Of  Quantum   Physics 
 
 "If I were limited to sharing only one word of advice for creating real joy, real serenity and real freedom in your life, that one word would be meditation. There's REAL POWER in the silence." - Chuck Danes 
 
 SBI! 
 
 
  start: shared_blocks.219399237#RC-7Keys-Search-20Favorites-HBI  
   Enjoying Your Visit and Like What You See?    AWeber Web Form Generator 3.0.1                               We'd Love To Have You Become a Part of The Enlightened Journey Global Community       FREE Monthly Newsletter         Complimentary copy of The Miracle of You and Your Cells         And SO MUCH More     (Just fill in the fields below)       Name:              Email:            Country:     USA   Afghanistan   Albania   Algeria   Andorra   Angola   Anguilla   Antigua Barbuda   Argentina   Aruba   Australia   Austria   Azerbaijan   Bahamas   Bahrain   Bangladesh   Barbados   Belarus   Belgium   Belize   Benin   Bermuda   Bhutan   Bolivia   Bosnia-Herzegovina   Botswana   Brazil   British Virgin Islands   Brunei   Bulgaria   Burkina   Burkina Faso   Burma   Burundi   Cambodia   Cameroon   Canada   Cape Verde   Cayman Islands   Chad   Chile   China   Colombia   Comoros   Congo   Costa Rica   Cote D'Ivoire   Croatia   Cuba   Cyprus   Czech Republic   Denmark   Djibouti   Dominica   Dominican Republic   Ecuador   Egypt   El Salvador   Equatorial Guinea   Eritrea   Estonia   Ethiopia   Falkland Islands   Faroe Islands   Fiji   Finland   France   French Polynesia   Gabon   Germany   Ghana   Gibraltar   Greece   Grenada   Guam   Guatemala   Guinea   Guinea-Bissau   Guyana   Haiti   Honduras   Hong Kong   Hungary   Iceland   India   Indonesia   Iran   Iraq   Ireland   Israel   Italy   Jamaica   Japan   Jordan   Kazakstan   Kenya   Kiribati   Kuwait   Kyrgyzstan   Laos   Latvia   Lebanon   Lesotho   Liberia   Libya   Liechtenstein   Lithuania   Luxembourg   Macedonia   Madagascar   Malawi   Malaysia   Maldives   Mali   Malta   Marshall Islands   Mauritania   Mauritius   Mexico   Micronesia   Monaco   Mongolia   Montenegro   Montserrat   Morocco   Mozambique   Namibia   Nauru   Nepal   Netherlands   Netherlands Antilles   New Zealand   Nicaragua   Niger   Nigeria   North Korea   Northern Mariana Islands   Norway   Oman   Pakistan   Palua   Panama   Papua New Guinea   Paraguay   Peru   Philippines   Pitcairn Island   Poland   Portugal   Puerto Rico   Qatar   Romania   Russia   Rwanda   Samoa   San Marino   Sao Tome and Principe   Saudi Arabia   Senegal   Serbia   Seychelles   Sierra Leone   Singapore   Slovakia   Slovenia   Solomon Islands   Somalia   South Africa   South Georgia   South Korea   Spain   Sri Lanka   St Helena   St Kitts Nevis   St Lucia   St Vincent The Grenadines   Sudan   Suriname   Swaziland   Sweden   Switzerland   Syria   Taiwan   Tanzania   Thailand   The Gambia   Togo   Tonga   Trinidad and Tobago   Tunisia   Turkey   Turks and Caicos Islands   Tuvalu   Uganda   Ukraine   United Arab Emirates   United Kingdom   Uruguay   Uzbekistan   Vanuatu   Vatican City State   Venezuela   Vietnam   West Indies   Western Samoa   Yemen   Zambia   Zimbabwe                Prepare to get  TRULY  EMPOWERED !!        /AWeber Web Form Generator 3.0.1            Search the Site   Looking for a  Specific Topic?   Find it Here...                                         Are You Tired of All   The "Secrets"   and  Truly   Ready  To Be, Do and Have More of What You Love?    The 7 Hidden Keys  To Conscious Creation   by Chuck Danes           There are  NO   SECRETS  to creating a life by design and EXPERIENCING the Kind and Quality of Life That You Love...   'The 7 Hidden Keys To Conscious Creation'           "Discover the overlooked but   NOT  So Secret Keys to  Consciously Activate the  Laws of Nature...every time" Click Here To Learn How  and Why You Can...REGARDLESS     Top 20 Most Viewed Pages   Quantum   Physics   The 7 Hidden Keys to  Conscious Creation   Inspirational Music Videos   Higher Truth   Going After The Prize   The Sixth Sense     Your Power to Choose   Success/Personal  Development Courses   Detachment, Surrender  and Love   Abundance and Success Principles   Science of Success   Be Still   The Power of Gratitude   Awakening Dimensional Consciousness Guided Meditation System   The Power of Perception   Wealth Mentoring     Law of Vibration     The Healing Codes     A Profound Spiritual Journey, the Evolution of Your Soul, Answers, Solutions and the "Completion" You Seek, Is  All Right Here in One Place...       HBI's Awakening Dimensional Consciousness Advanced Spiritual Development Series Core I thru VII (Click on the appropriate Link Below to learn details about each individual Higher Balance Advanced Spiritual Development  Module, Core I thru VII)       Core I - Awakening Dimensional Consciousness Guided Meditation System     Core I - The Awakening Dimensional Consciousness Guided Meditation System     Core II - The Secret Key     Core II - The Secret Key     Core III - Phoenix Rising     Core III - Phoenix Rising     Core IV - Mind Mechanix     Core IV - Mind Mechanix     Core V - The Unknown Door     Core V - The Unknown Door     Core VI - The Navigator   Core VI - The Navigator     Core VII - Circle of Masters   Core VII - Circle of Masters     Bundle and Save   Save 50% on The Ultimate Navigators  Package - Core I thru Core VII Bundle Learn More about the Core I thru Core VII Super Saver Package   
 
 
 
 
 