Understanding the Four Types of Artificial Intelligence 
 
 
 
 
 
  AdSense  
  /AdSense  
 
 
  $userRequest.getCookie("intCookie")  
  add a canonical url (hometarget)  per https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/139066   
 
  Retargeting  
 
  /Retargeting  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 image/svg+xml 
 
 CONTINUE TO SITE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 x 
 
 
 
  COOKIE STATEMENT  
 This website uses cookies in order to offer you the most relevant information.
   × 
 Learn More 
 I Accept 
 
  COOKIE STATEMENT SCRIPT  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MAGAZINE 
 NEWSLETTERS 
 EVENTS 
 PAPERS 
 NAVIGATOR 
 
 SECTIONS 
 
 CENTER FOR DIGITAL EDUCATION 
 CENTER FOR DIGITAL GOVERNMENT 
 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT 
 FUTURESTRUCTURE 
 SPECIAL DISTRICTS 
 DIGITAL COMMUNITIES 
 DIGITAL STATES PERFORMANCE INSTITUTE 
 
 TOP 25 
 GOVTECH 100 
 SPECIAL PROJECTS 
 
 
 SEARCH 
 
 
 Cybersecurity 
 GovTech Biz 
 Emerging Tech 
 Crisis Response 
 Gov Experience 
 More 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  $req.param('i1test') /   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cloud & Computing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Understanding the Four Types of Artificial Intelligence 
 Machines understand verbal commands, distinguish pictures, drive cars and play games better than we do. How much longer can it be before they walk among us? 
 
 
									 									    	    				    	    																																											    													    															

    	    																																																		    							    															






        	    
        	    


        	    				    	    																																											    													    															                                                                                    																																				

    
                                      
                            
        
        
        
        
        
        
            






																																				



                                                            
 

 
																																				
 																			by Arend Hintze, Michigan State University
																	 
  /  
 
																			November 14, 2016
																	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
													Photo Courtesy of Shutterstock
												 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/loose.dtd" 
 The common, and recurring, view of the latest breakthroughs in artificial intelligence research is that sentient and intelligent machines are just on the horizon. Machines understand verbal commands, distinguish pictures, drive cars and play games better than we do. How much longer can it be before they walk among us? 
 The new  White House report on artificial intelligence  takes an appropriately skeptical view of that dream. It says the next 20 years likely won’t see machines “exhibit broadly-applicable intelligence comparable to or exceeding that of humans,” though it does go on to say that in the coming years, “machines will reach and exceed human performance on more and more tasks.” But its assumptions about how those capabilities will develop missed some important points. 
 As an AI researcher, I’ll admit it was nice to have my own field highlighted at the highest level of American government, but the report focused almost exclusively on what I call “the boring kind of AI.” It dismissed in half a sentence my branch of AI research, into how evolution can help develop ever-improving AI systems, and how computational models can help us understand how our human intelligence evolved. 
 RELATED Why We're Training the Next Generation of Lawyers in Big Data Young Startup Wants to Train AI Better, Faster Using Synthetic Data Artificial Intelligence Will Help Create a More Responsive Government The report focuses on what might be called mainstream AI tools: machine learning and deep learning. These are the sorts of technologies that have been able to  play “Jeopardy!” well , and  beat human Go masters  at the most complicated game ever invented. These current intelligent systems are able to handle huge amounts of data and make complex calculations very quickly. But they lack an element that will be key to building the sentient machines we picture having in the future. 
 We need to do more than teach machines to learn. We need to overcome the boundaries that define the four different types of artificial intelligence, the barriers that separate machines from us – and us from them. 
 How Many Types of Artificial Intelligence are There? 
 There are four types of artificial intelligence: reactive machines, limited memory, theory of mind and self-awareness. 
 1. Reactive machines 
 The most basic types of AI systems are purely reactive, and have the ability neither to form memories nor to use past experiences to inform current decisions.  Deep Blue, IBM’s chess-playing supercomputer , which beat international grandmaster Garry Kasparov in the late 1990s, is the perfect example of this type of machine. 
 Deep Blue can identify the pieces on a chess board and know how each moves. It can make predictions about what moves might be next for it and its opponent. And it can choose the most optimal moves from among the possibilities. 
 But it doesn’t have any concept of the past, nor any memory of what has happened before. Apart from a rarely used chess-specific rule against repeating the same move three times, Deep Blue ignores everything before the present moment. All it does is look at the pieces on the chess board as it stands right now, and choose from possible next moves. 
 This type of intelligence involves the computer  perceiving the world directly  and acting on what it sees. It doesn’t rely on an internal concept of the world. In a seminal paper, AI researcher Rodney Brooks argued that  we should only build machines  like this. His main reason was that people are not very good at programming accurate simulated worlds for computers to use, what is called in AI scholarship a “representation” of the world. 
 The current intelligent machines we marvel at either have no such concept of the world, or have a very limited and specialized one for its particular duties. The  innovation in Deep Blue’s design  was not to broaden the range of possible movies the computer considered. Rather, the developers found a way to narrow its view, to  stop pursuing some potential future moves , based on how it rated their outcome. Without this ability, Deep Blue would have needed to be an even more powerful computer to actually beat Kasparov. 
 Similarly, Google’s AlphaGo, which has beaten top human Go experts, can’t evaluate all potential future moves either. Its analysis method is more sophisticated than Deep Blue’s, using a  neural network  to evaluate game developments. 
 These methods do improve the ability of AI systems to play specific games better, but they can’t be easily changed or applied to other situations. These computerized imaginations have no concept of the wider world – meaning they can’t function beyond the specific tasks they’re assigned and are  easily fooled . 
 They can’t interactively participate in the world, the way we imagine AI systems one day might. Instead, these machines will behave exactly the same way every time they encounter the same situation. This can be very good for ensuring an AI system is trustworthy: You want your autonomous car to be a reliable driver. But it’s bad if we want machines to truly engage with, and respond to, the world. These simplest AI systems won’t ever be bored, or interested, or sad. 
 2. Limited memory 
 This Type II class contains machines can look into the past. Self-driving cars do some of this already. For example, they observe other cars’ speed and direction. That can’t be done in a just one moment, but rather requires identifying specific objects and monitoring them over time. 
 These observations are added to the self-driving cars’ preprogrammed representations of the world, which also include lane markings, traffic lights and other important elements, like curves in the road. They’re included when the car decides when to change lanes, to avoid cutting off another driver or being hit by a nearby car. 
 But these simple pieces of information about the past are only transient. They aren’t saved as part of the car’s library of experience it can learn from, the way human drivers compile experience over years behind the wheel. 
 So how can we build AI systems that build full representations, remember their experiences and learn how to handle new situations? Brooks was right in that it is very difficult to do this. My own research into methods inspired by Darwinian evolution can start to  make up for human shortcomings  by letting the machines build their own representations. 
 3. Theory of mind 
 We might stop here, and call this point the important divide between the machines we have and the machines we will build in the future. However, it is better to be more specific to discuss the types of representations machines need to form, and what they need to be about. 
 Machines in the next, more advanced, class not only form representations about the world, but also about other agents or entities in the world. In psychology, this is called “ theory of mind ” – the understanding that people, creatures and objects in the world can have thoughts and emotions that affect their own behavior. 
 This is crucial to  how we humans formed societies , because they allowed us to have social interactions. Without understanding each other’s motives and intentions, and without taking into account what somebody else knows either about me or the environment, working together is at best difficult, at worst impossible. 
 If AI systems are indeed ever to walk among us, they’ll have to be able to understand that each of us has thoughts and feelings and expectations for how we’ll be treated. And they’ll have to adjust their behavior accordingly. 
 4. Self-awareness 
 The final step of AI development is to build systems that can form representations about themselves. Ultimately, we AI researchers will have to not only understand consciousness, but build machines that have it. 
 This is, in a sense, an extension of the “theory of mind” possessed by Type III artificial intelligences. Consciousness is also called “self-awareness” for a reason. (“I want that item” is a very different statement from “I know I want that item.”) Conscious beings are aware of themselves, know about their internal states, and are able to predict feelings of others. We assume someone honking behind us in traffic is angry or impatient, because that’s how we feel when we honk at others. Without a theory of mind, we could not make those sorts of inferences. 
 While we are probably far from creating machines that are self-aware, we should focus our efforts toward understanding memory, learning and the ability to base decisions on past experiences. This is an important step to understand human intelligence on its own. And it is crucial if we want to design or evolve machines that are more than exceptional at classifying what they see in front of them. 
 
 This article was originally published on  The Conversation .  
 Looking for the latest gov tech news as it happens?  Subscribe to GT newsletters. 
 
 READ MORE 
 Why We're Training the Next Generation of Lawyers in Big Data 
 Young Startup Wants to Train AI Better, Faster Using Synthetic Data 
 Artificial Intelligence Will Help Create a More Responsive Government 
 
 
 
 
 
								MORE FROM Cloud & Computing
							 
 
 
 
 
  [ Right Sidebar ] from /computing (newRightSidebar)  
 
  using common_get_url_keywords  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Featured Resources 
 
 
 
 
 Presented by 
   
 
 
 New Rules to Find, Attract and Keep Talent in a Government Workforce 
 
 
 5 Best Practices for IT Modernization Success 
 
 
 How Open Source Helps Government with Hybrid Cloud Challenges 
 
 
 Gaining Steam: Cloud Platform Adoption and Emerging Technologies 
 
 
 The Ladder to AI 
 
 
 
 Tweets by IBM Cloud   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Template / gt_2016_sponsored_articles_module.html v8 / modified: 2019-10-02 15:58:20.0  
 
 
 
 
 SPONSORED ARTICLES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IT Modernization: The New Imperative 
 In this Government Technology Q&A, Marc Moffett, Cisco systems engineering lead for state and local governments, discusses what the roadmap for modernization will look like going forward. 
 
 
 
 
 
 WATCH: How Los Angeles Put $30 Million in the Hands of Low-Income Residents Impacted by Covid Shutdown 
 The city’s idea – pre-paid debit cards – is being rolled out to 10 other communities across the country. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Connecting Ocala Florida to Face Down COVID-19 
 The city’s municipal broadband network more than proved its value by connecting hospitals, schools, and local government to keep its citizens safe, healthy, and informed.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Platforms & Programs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GT Logo 
 © 2020 All rights reserved. e.Republic California Residents - Do Not Sell My Personal Information 
 
 
 
 
 NEWSLETTERS 
 
 
 
  GOVTECH TODAY
			         
 
 
 
  GOVTECH CYBERSECURITY
			         
 
 
 
  GOVTECH BIZ
			         
 
 
 
  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
			         
 
 
 
  FUTURESTRUCTURE
			         
 
 
 
  GOVTECH CIO
			         
 
 
 
  DIGITAL COMMUNITIES
			         
 
 
 
  SPECIAL DISTRICTS
			         
 
 
 
  K-12
			         
 
 
 
  HIGHER EDUCATION
			         
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 
 
 PODCASTS 
 GOVTECH360 
 IN THE ARENA 
 
 
 ABOUT 
 SENIOR FELLOWS 
 ADVERTISE 
 CONTACT 
 PRIVACY 
 California Residents - Do Not Sell My Personal Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GT Logo 
 © 2020 All rights reserved. e.Republic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  LinkedIn Tracking for Paid  
   
  /LinkedIn Tracking for Paid  
  Facebook Pixel Code  
 
 
  End Facebook Pixel Code  
  Twitter universal website tag code  
 
  End Twitter universal website tag code  
 
 