
 Why Are Tesla Cars So Expensive? 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General
 
 
 
 
Dictionary
 
 
 
 
Economics
 
 
 
 
Corporate Finance
 
 
 
 
Roth IRA
 
 
 
 
Stocks
 
 
 
 
Mutual Funds
 
 
 
 
ETFs
 
 
 
 
401(k)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investing/Trading
 
 
 
 
Investing Essentials
 
 
 
 
Fundamental Analysis
 
 
 
 
Portfolio Management
 
 
 
 
Trading Essentials
 
 
 
 
Technical Analysis
 
 
 
 
Risk Management
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Markets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
News
 
 
 
 
Company News
 
 
 
 
Markets News
 
 
 
 
Trading News
 
 
 
 
Political News
 
 
 
 
Trends
 
 
 
 
 
 
Popular Stocks
 
 
 
 
Apple (AAPL)
 
 
 
 
Tesla (TSLA)
 
 
 
 
Amazon (AMZN)
 
 
 
 
AMD (AMD)
 
 
 
 
Facebook (FB)
 
 
 
 
Netflix (NFLX)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simulator
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simulator
 
 
 
 
Create an Account
 
 
 
 
Join a Game
 
 
 
 
 
 
My Simulator
 
 
 
 
My Game
 
 
 
 
Create a Game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Money
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Finance
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management
 
 
 
 
Budgeting/Saving
 
 
 
 
Banking
 
 
 
 
Credit Cards
 
 
 
 
Home Ownership
 
 
 
 
Retirement Planning
 
 
 
 
Taxes
 
 
 
 
Insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reviews & Ratings
 
 
 
 
Best Online Brokers
 
 
 
 
Best Savings Accounts
 
 
 
 
Best Home Warranties
 
 
 
 
Best Credit Cards
 
 
 
 
Best Personal Loans
 
 
 
 
Best Student Loans
 
 
 
 
Best Life Insurance
 
 
 
 
Best Auto Insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advisors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Practice
 
 
 
 
Practice Management
 
 
 
 
Continuing Education
 
 
 
 
Financial Advisor Careers
 
 
 
 
Investopedia 100
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management
 
 
 
 
Portfolio Construction
 
 
 
 
Financial Planning
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Academy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Popular Courses
 
 
 
 
Investing for Beginners
 
 
 
 
Become a Day Trader
 
 
 
 
Trading for Beginners
 
 
 
 
Technical Analysis
 
 
 
 
 
 
Courses by Topic
 
 
 
 
All Courses
 
 
 
 
Trading Courses
 
 
 
 
Investing Courses
 
 
 
 
Financial Professional Courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Submit 
 
 
 
 
  Google Tag Manager ()  
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
 
 
 
 Budgeting & Savings 
 
 
   Savings 
   
 
   Budgeting 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Budgeting & Savings
   
 
 
  Budgeting
 
 
Why Are Tesla Cars So Expensive? 
 
 
 
 
 
FACEBOOK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TWITTER
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LINKEDIN
 
 
 
 
By
 
 Adam Hayes 
 
 
 
Updated Jun 27, 2020 
 
 
 
 
Tesla, Inc. ( TSLA ), the brainchild of entrepreneur  Elon Musk , has made waves by challenging the auto industry and producing its own all-electric car. Initially,  Tesla's main competitors  remained faithful to the internal combustion engine or introduced models that blended gasoline with batteries by way of hybrid vehicles. But now traditional car companies such as Toyota (TM), Ford (F), and General Motors (GM) have all announced plans to launch their own lines of all-electric cars that they hope will rival Tesla's models.
 
 
 
One reason the traditional automakers hesitated to undertake electric vehicle (EV) production was that the costs were so high that when passed on to the consumer, the cars would be prohibitively expensive. Tesla cars, therefore, are relatively expensive to buy. The flagship 2020 Model S sedan has a base price of $74,990, while the Model X starts at $79,990. But just why is a  Tesla car  so expensive?
 
 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
 
 Compared to traditional cars or hybrid vehicles, Tesla's all-electric cars are more expensive; for example, the flagship 2020 Model S sedan has a starting price of $74,990. The demand for Tesla cars is high and the company has not been able to keep up with production, leading to a waitlist of vehicles on backorder. Consumer demand for Tesla's cars is spurred by modern design, innovative technology, and high performance that makes the cars a "green energy" favorite. In addition to high demand, the other reason for Tesla cars' high price is the high cost of the electric battery packs that supply the vehicles with power. 
 
 
      Supply and Demand    
 
There is clearly a  demand for Tesla cars . Every month the company seems to set new sales records. But despite the demand, there is a  bottleneck  in production, creating a waitlist for  backordered  vehicles that is growing steadily. Unlike established car companies, Tesla does not have the manufacturing capacity to meet the current demand all at once. Because the demand exceeds the current supply, basic economics suggests that the price would be bid up. Tesla seems to be constrained by production, not demand.
 
 
 
The demand is fueled in part by the  green energy  movement. Because Tesla cars are all-electric, they do not consume greenhouse gas-emitting gasoline and do not directly create carbon dioxide. It remains true, however, that CO 2  is still a by-product of the electrical generation needed to charge the car's batteries. Demand is also driven by Tesla's sleek, modern design and its high-tech driver interface and dashboard that features an impressive all-digital, touch-sensitive display.
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
In addition, Tesla cars are high performance. The  Model S  can cruise for over 400 miles on a  full charge , and recharging is a user-friendly task. The Model S can accelerate from 0-60 miles per hour in as little as 2.3 seconds. Combined with all of this is the fact that electric cars are virtually silent when they drive, a truly desirable feature for many.
 
 
 
The Tesla  Model X  is a more family-friendly SUV that can comfortably fit seven passengers. By expanding its  product line , Tesla is sure to increase demand for its cars. The question remains as to whether it can build out enough capacity to produce those vehicles in a short amount of time. To that end, Tesla has completed building phase one of its enormous "Gigafactory" in the Nevada desert, which allows the company to scale up production of both its cars and the battery packs required to power them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 At about 30% done as of June 2020, Tesla's Gigafactory houses approximately 5.3 million square feet of operational space over several floors. When completed, Tesla expects its factory to be the biggest building in the world. 
 
 
      Battery Technology Is Expensive    
 
Batteries to store and use electrical power are the most expensive single component of these cars. One of management's main goals has been to reduce the battery costs per kilowatt-hour for its cars, and the company has made some significant headway toward that goal.  Forbes estimates  Tesla's battery costs have declined from roughly $230 per kilowatt-hour in 2016 to $127 in 2019. Because of the company's higher volumes, Tesla's battery costs are about 20% lower than the industry average.
 
 
 
A lot of  research and development  is going into battery technology, and the hope is that in a short time the cost of battery power storage will be able to compete with the cost of gasoline or other fossil fuels.
 
 
      The Bottom Line    
 
Tesla cars are expensive, but that hasn't stopped people from lining up to buy them. One reason the price is so high is that, at the moment, demand is outstripping supply. Expanding production capacity and building new factories is sure to help moderate prices.
 
 
 
The other main reason for Tesla cars' high sticker price is the very high cost of the electric battery packs that supply these vehicles with power. While the cost of battery technology and its energy efficiency has improved over the past few years, more research and development is needed to create a truly affordable electric car. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Articles 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Budgeting 
 
Will Tesla Cars Ever Be Affordable? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Company Profiles 
 
The Economics of Tesla’s Batteries Business 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Company Profiles 
 
What Drives Consumer Demand for Tesla? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Company Profiles 
 
6 Big Risks of Investing in Tesla Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Car Insurance 
 
What Is Classic Car Insurance? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Top Stocks 
 
Who Are Tesla's (TSLA) Main Competitors? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Partner Links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Terms 
 
 
 Understanding Bottlenecks 
 
A bottleneck is a point of congestion in a production system that occurs when workloads arrive at a point more quickly than that point can handle them. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 Demand Shock: What You Need to Know 
 
A demand shock is a sudden change in the demand for goods or services given the same supply. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 Green Tech Definition 
 
Green tech is a type of technology that is considered environmentally-friendly based on its production process or supply chain. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 Crude Oil 
 
Crude oil is a naturally occurring, unrefined petroleum product composed of hydrocarbon deposits and other organic materials. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 Nelson Complexity Index – NCI 
 
The Nelson Complexity Index (NCI) measures the sophistication of an oil refinery operation and the types of products it can make. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 Energy Sector Definition 
 
The energy sector is a category of stocks that relate to producing or supplying energy, i.e., oil and gas drilling and refining or power utility companies. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About Us 
 
 
 
 
 Terms of Use 
 
 
 
 
 Dictionary 
 
 
 
 
 Editorial Policy 
 
 
 
 
 Advertise 
 
 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 
 Careers 
 
 
 
 
 California Privacy Notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 # 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 B 
 
 
 C 
 
 
 D 
 
 
 E 
 
 
 F 
 
 
 G 
 
 
 H 
 
 
 I 
 
 
 J 
 
 
 K 
 
 
 L 
 
 
 M 
 
 
 N 
 
 
 O 
 
 
 P 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 R 
 
 
 S 
 
 
 T 
 
 
 U 
 
 
 V 
 
 
 W 
 
 
 X 
 
 
 Y 
 
 
 Z 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investopedia is part of the  Dotdash  publishing family.
 
 
 
 
 
 