 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.thoughtco.com/quantum-physics-overview-2699370  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-30  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start quantum   physics HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  html 
 
 Quantum Physics Overview, Concepts, and History 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  Google Tag Manager (Testing)  
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quantum   Physics  Overview 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search the site 
 
 GO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Science 
 
 
 
   Physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Quantum   Physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Physics  Laws, Concepts, and Principles
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Important Physicists
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Thermodynamics
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Cosmology & Astrophysics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Chemistry
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Biology
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Geology
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Astronomy
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Weather & Climate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Science, Tech, Math
   
 
 Science 
 Math 
 Social Sciences 
 Computer Science 
 Animals & Nature 
 
 
 
 
  Humanities
   
 
 History & Culture 
 Visual Arts 
 Literature 
 English 
 Geography 
 Philosophy 
 Issues 
 
 
 
 
  Languages
   
 
 English as a Second Language 
 Spanish 
 French 
 German 
 Italian 
 Japanese 
 Mandarin 
 Russian 
 
 
 
 
  Resources
   
 
 For Students & Parents 
 For Educators 
 For Adult Learners 
 
 
 
 About Us 
 Contact Us 
 Editorial Guidelines 
 Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Science, Tech, Math 
   
› 
Science 
 
 Quantum   Physics  Overview
 
How  Quantum  Mechanics Explains the Invisible Universe 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flipboard
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Email
 
 
 
 
 
 
Print
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  traffic_analyzer / Getty Images 
 
 
 
 
 
 Science 
 
 
 
   Physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Quantum   Physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Physics  Laws, Concepts, and Principles
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Important Physicists
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Thermodynamics
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Cosmology & Astrophysics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Chemistry
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Biology
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Geology
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Astronomy
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Weather & Climate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Andrew Zimmerman Jones 
 
 
 
 
Math and  Physics  Expert 
 
 
 
 
 
M.S., Mathematics Education, Indiana University 
 
B.A.,  Physics , Wabash College 
 
 
Andrew Zimmerman Jones is a science writer, educator, and researcher. He is the co-author of "String Theory for Dummies." 
 
 
 
 our editorial process 
 
 
 
 
 Andrew Zimmerman Jones 
 
 
 
Updated August 16, 2019
 
 
 
 
 
 Quantum   physics  is the study of the behavior of  matter  and  energy  at the molecular, atomic, nuclear, and even smaller microscopic levels. In the early 20th century, scientists discovered that the laws governing macroscopic objects do not function the same in such small realms. 
 
 
      What Does  Quantum  Mean?    
 
 " Quantum " comes from the Latin meaning "how much." It refers to the discrete units of matter and energy that are predicted by and observed in  quantum   physics . Even space and time, which appear to be extremely continuous, have the smallest possible values. 
 
 
      Who Developed  Quantum  Mechanics?    
 
 As scientists gained the technology to measure with greater precision, strange phenomena was observed. The birth of  quantum   physics  is attributed to Max Planck's 1900 paper on blackbody radiation. Development of the field was done by  Max Planck ,  Albert Einstein ,  Niels Bohr , Richard Feynman, Werner Heisenberg, Erwin Schroedinger, and other luminary figures in the field. Ironically, Albert Einstein had serious theoretical issues with  quantum  mechanics and tried for many years to disprove or modify it. 
 
 
      What's Special About  Quantum   Physics ?    
 
 In the realm of  quantum   physics , observing something actually influences the physical processes taking place. Light waves act like particles and particles act like waves (called  wave particle duality ). Matter can go from one spot to another without moving through the intervening space (called  quantum  tunnelling). Information moves instantly across vast distances. In fact, in  quantum  mechanics we discover that the entire universe is actually a series of probabilities. Fortunately, it breaks down when dealing with large objects, as demonstrated by the  Schrodinger's Cat  thought experiment. 
 
 
      What is  Quantum  Entanglement?    
 
 One of the key concepts is  quantum  entanglement , which describes a situation where multiple particles are associated in such a way that measuring the  quantum  state of one particle also places constraints on the measurements of the other particles. This is best exemplified by the  EPR Paradox . Though originally a thought experiment, this has now been confirmed experimentally through tests of something known as  Bell's Theorem . 
 
 
       Quantum  Optics    
 
 Quantum  optics  is a branch of  quantum   physics  that focuses primarily on the behavior of light, or photons. At the level of  quantum  optics, the behavior of individual photons has a bearing on the outcoming light, as opposed to classical optics, which was developed by Sir Isaac Newton. Lasers are one application that has come out of the study of  quantum  optics. 
 
 
       Quantum  Electrodynamics (QED)    
 
 Quantum  electrodynamics (QED) is the study of how electrons and photons interact. It was developed in the late 1940s by Richard Feynman, Julian Schwinger, Sinitro Tomonage, and others. The predictions of QED regarding the scattering of photons and electrons are accurate to eleven decimal places. 
 
 
      Unified Field Theory    
 
 Unified field theory  is a collection of research paths that are trying to reconcile  quantum   physics  with  Einstein's theory of general relativity , often by trying to consolidate the  fundamental forces of  physics . Some types of unified theories include (with some overlap): 
 
 
 
 Quantum  Gravity Loop  Quantum  Gravity String Theory / Superstring Theory / M-Theory Grand Unified Theory Supersymmetry Theory of Everything 
 
 
      Other Names for  Quantum   Physics     
 
 Quantum   physics  is sometimes called  quantum  mechanics or  quantum  field theory. It also has various subfields, as discussed above, which are sometimes used interchangeably with  quantum   physics , though  quantum   physics  is actually the broader term for all of these disciplines. 
 
 
      Major Findings, Experiments, and Basic Explanations    
 
 Earliest Findings 
 
 
 
 Black Body Radiation Photoelectric Effect 
 
 
 
 Wave-Particle Duality 
 
 
 
 Young's Double Slit Experiment De Broglie Hypothesis 
 
 
 
 The Compton Effect 
 
 
 
 Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle 
 
 
 
 Causality in  Quantum   Physics  - Thought Experiments and Interpretations 
 
 
 
 The Copenhagen Interpretation Schrodinger's Cat EPR Paradox The Many Worlds Interpretation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 What Is  Quantum  Optics? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 The Copenhagen Interpretation of  Quantum  Mechanics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Top 10 Weird but Cool  Physics  Ideas 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 How to Solve an Energy From Wavelength Problem 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Albert Einstein: What Is Unified Field Theory? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 EPR Paradox in  Physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Wave-Particle Duality - Definition 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Wave Particle Duality and How It Works 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 The Different Fields of  Physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 What Is  Quantum  Gravity? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Everything You Need to Know About Bell's Theorem 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 What Is a Boson? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Quantum  Entanglement in  Physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Science Comic Books 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Five Great Problems in Theoretical  Physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 What Is a Photon in  Physics ? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Learn Something New Every Day 
 
 
 
 
 Email Address 
 
 
Sign up
 
 
 There was an error. Please try again. 
 
 
 
You're in! Thanks for signing up. 
 
There was an error. Please try again. 
 Thank you   for signing up. 
 
 end mntl-newsletter-signup 
 
 
 Follow Us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Facebook 
 Facebook 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flipboard 
 Flipboard 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Science, Tech, Math 
 Humanities 
 Languages 
 Resources 
 
 
 
 About Us 
 Advertise 
 Privacy Policy 
 Cookie Policy 
 Careers 
 Editorial Guidelines 
 Contact 
 Terms of Use 
 California Privacy Notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ThoughtCo is part of the  Dotdash  publishing family.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 