 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_mechanics  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-30  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start quantum   physics HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  
 html 
 Quantum mechanics - Wikipedia 
 
 
 
 
  CentralNotice  
 
 
 
 Quantum  mechanics 
 
 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 
 
 This is the  latest accepted revision ,  reviewed  on  30 July 2020 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jump to navigation 
 Jump to search 
 
 
 Branch of  physics  describing nature on an atomic scale 
 For a more accessible and less technical introduction to this topic, see  Introduction to  quantum  mechanics . 
   Wavefunctions  of the  electron  in a hydrogen atom at different energy levels.  Quantum  mechanics cannot predict the exact location of a particle in space, only the probability of finding it at different locations. [1]  The brighter areas represent a higher probability of finding the electron. 
 Part of a  series  on Quantum  mechanics 
 
 
 
 i 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 
 ∂  ∂  
 
 ∂  ∂  
 t 
 
 
 
 
 | 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 ( 
 t 
 ) 
 ⟩  ⟩  
 = 
 
 
 
 H 
 ^  ^  
 
 
 
 
 | 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 ( 
 t 
 ) 
 ⟩  ⟩  
 
 
 {\displaystyle i\hbar {\frac {\partial }{\partial t}}|\psi (t)\rangle ={\hat {H}}|\psi (t)\rangle } 
 
 Schrödinger equation 
 Introduction 
 Glossary 
 History 
 Textbooks 
 Background 
 Classical mechanics 
 Old  quantum  theory 
 Bra–ket notation 
 
 Hamiltonian 
 Interference 
 
 
 Fundamentals 
 Coherence 
 Decoherence 
 Complementarity 
 Energy level 
 Entanglement 
 Hamiltonian 
 Uncertainty principle 
 Ground state 
 Interference 
 Measurement 
 Nonlocality 
 Observable 
 Operator 
 Quantum 
 Quantum  fluctuation 
 Quantum  number 
 Quantum  noise 
 Quantum  realm 
 Quantum  state 
 Quantum  system 
 Quantum  teleportation 
 Qubit 
 Spin 
 Superposition 
 Symmetry 
 (Spontaneous) symmetry breaking 
 Vacuum state 
 Wave propagation 
 Wave function 
 Wave function collapse 
 Wave–particle duality 
 Matter wave 
 
 
 Effects 
 Zeeman effect 
 Stark effect 
 Aharonov–Bohm effect 
 Landau quantization 
 Quantum  Hall effect 
 Quantum  Zeno effect 
 Quantum  tunnelling 
 Photoelectric effect 
 Casimir effect 
 
 
 Experiments 
 Afshar 
 Bell's inequality 
 Davisson–Germer 
 Double-slit 
 Elitzur–Vaidman 
 Franck–Hertz 
 Leggett–Garg inequality 
 Mach–Zehnder 
 Popper 
 
 Quantum  eraser  ( delayed-choice ) 
 
 Schrödinger's cat 
 Stern–Gerlach 
 Wheeler's delayed-choice 
 
 
 Formulations 
 Overview 
 
 Heisenberg 
 Interaction 
 Matrix 
 Phase-space 
 Schrödinger 
 Sum-over-histories (path-integral) 
 
 
 Equations 
 Dirac 
 Hellmann–Feynman 
 Klein–Gordon 
 Lippmann–Schwinger 
 Pauli 
 Rydberg 
 Schrödinger 
 
 
 Interpretations 
 Overview 
 
 Bayesian 
 Consistent histories 
 Copenhagen 
 de Broglie–Bohm 
 Ensemble 
 Hidden-variable 
 Many-worlds 
 Objective collapse 
 Quantum  logic 
 Relational 
 Stochastic 
 Transactional 
 
 
 Advanced topics 
 Quantum  annealing 
 Quantum  chaos 
 Quantum  computing 
 Density matrix 
 Quantum  field theory 
 Fractional  quantum  mechanics 
 Quantum  gravity 
 Quantum  information science 
 Quantum  machine learning 
 Perturbation theory ( quantum  mechanics) 
 Relativistic  quantum  mechanics 
 Scattering theory 
 Spontaneous parametric down-conversion 
 Quantum  statistical mechanics 
 
 Scientists 
 Aharonov 
 Bell 
 Blackett 
 Bloch 
 Bohm 
 Bohr 
 Born 
 Bose 
 de Broglie 
 Candlin 
 Compton 
 Dirac 
 Davisson 
 Debye 
 Ehrenfest 
 Einstein 
 Everett 
 Fock 
 Fermi 
 Feynman 
 Glauber 
 Gutzwiller 
 Heisenberg 
 Hilbert 
 Jordan 
 Kramers 
 Pauli 
 Lamb 
 Landau 
 Laue 
 Moseley 
 Millikan 
 Onnes 
 Planck 
 Rabi 
 Raman 
 Rydberg 
 Schrödinger 
 Sommerfeld 
 von Neumann 
 Weyl 
 Wien 
 Wigner 
 Zeeman 
 Zeilinger 
 Goudsmit 
 Uhlenbeck 
 Yang 
 
 
 Categories 
 ►     Quantum  mechanics 
 
 v t e 
 Quantum  mechanics  ( QM ; also known as  quantum   physics ,  quantum  theory , the  wave mechanical model  and  matrix mechanics ), part of  quantum  field theory , is a fundamental theory in  physics . It describes physical properties of  nature  on an  atomic  scale. [2] 
 Classical  physics , the description of  physics  that existed before the  theory of relativity  and  quantum  mechanics, describes many aspects of nature at an ordinary (macroscopic) scale, while  quantum  mechanics explains the aspects of nature at small ( atomic  and  subatomic ) scales, for which classical mechanics is insufficient.
 Most theories in classical  physics  can be derived from  quantum  mechanics as an approximation valid at large (macroscopic) scale. [3]   Quantum  mechanics differs from  classical  physics  in that  energy ,  momentum ,  angular momentum , and other quantities of a bound system are restricted to  discrete values  ( quantization ), objects have characteristics of both  particles  and  waves  ( wave-particle duality ), and there are limits to how accurately the value of a physical quantity can be predicted prior to its measurement, given a complete set of initial conditions (the  uncertainty principle ). [note 1] 
 Quantum  mechanics  arose gradually , from theories to explain observations which could not be reconciled with classical  physics , such as  Max Planck 's solution in 1900 to the  black-body radiation  problem, and the correspondence between energy and frequency in  Albert Einstein 's  1905 paper  which explained the  photoelectric effect .  Early  quantum  theory  was profoundly re-conceived in the mid-1920s by  Erwin Schrödinger ,  Werner Heisenberg ,  Max Born  and others.  The modern theory is formulated in various  specially developed mathematical formalisms . In one of them, a mathematical function, the  wave function , provides information about the  probability amplitude  of energy, momentum, and other physical properties of a  particle .
 
 Contents 
 
 1   History 
 2   Mathematical formulations 
 
 2.1   Mathematically equivalent formulations 
 
 
 3   Relation to other scientific theories 
 
 3.1   Relation to classical  physics 
 3.2   Copenhagen interpretation of  quantum  versus classical kinematics 
 3.3   Relation to general relativity 
 3.4   Attempts at a unified field theory 
 
 
 4   Philosophical implications 
 5   Applications 
 
 5.1   Electronics 
 5.2   Cryptography 
 5.3   Quantum  computing 
 5.4   Macroscale  quantum  effects 
 5.5   Other phenomena 
 
 
 6   Examples 
 
 6.1   Free particle 
 6.2   Particle in a box 
 6.3   Finite potential well 
 6.4   Rectangular potential barrier 
 6.5   Harmonic oscillator 
 6.6   Step potential 
 
 
 7   See also 
 8   Notes 
 9   References 
 10   Further reading 
 11   External links 
 
 
 History [ edit ] 
 Modern  physics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 H 
 ^  ^  
 
 
 
 
 | 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 n 
 
 
 ( 
 t 
 ) 
 ⟩  ⟩  
 = 
 i 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 
 ∂  ∂  
 
 ∂  ∂  
 t 
 
 
 
 
 | 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 n 
 
 
 ( 
 t 
 ) 
 ⟩  ⟩  
 
 
 {\displaystyle {\hat {H}}|\psi _{n}(t)\rangle =i\hbar {\frac {\partial }{\partial t}}|\psi _{n}(t)\rangle } 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 c 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ∂  ∂  
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 ϕ  ϕ  
 
 
 n 
 
 
 
 
 
 ∂  ∂  
 t 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 −  −  
 
 
 
 ∇  ∇  
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 ϕ  ϕ  
 
 
 n 
 
 
 
 + 
 
 
 
 ( 
 
 
 
 m 
 c 
 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 ϕ  ϕ  
 
 
 n 
 
 
 = 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{{c}^{2}}}{\frac {{\partial }^{2}{\phi }_{n}}{{\partial t}^{2}}}-{{\nabla }^{2}{\phi }_{n}}+{\left({\frac {mc}{\hbar }}\right)}^{2}{\phi }_{n}=0} 
 
 Manifold dynamics :  Schrödinger  and  Klein–Gordon equations 
 Founders Max Planck    ·   Albert Einstein    ·   Niels Bohr    ·   Max Born    ·   Werner Heisenberg    ·   Erwin Schrödinger    ·   Pascual Jordan    ·   Wolfgang Pauli    ·   Paul Dirac    ·   Ernest Rutherford    ·   Louis de Broglie    ·   Satyendra Nath Bose 
 
 Concepts Topology   ·   Space   ·   Time   ·   Energy   ·   Matter   ·   Work     Randomness   ·   Information   ·   Entropy   ·   Mind     Light   ·   Particle   ·   Wave 
 
 Branches Applied   ·   Experimental   ·   Theoretical     Mathematical    ·   Philosophy of  physics     Quantum  mechanics  ( Quantum  field theory   ·   Quantum  information   ·   Quantum  computation )    Electromagnetism   ·     Weak interaction   ·   Electroweak interaction     Strong interaction     Atomic   ·   Particle   ·   Nuclear     Atomic, molecular, and optical     Condensed matter   ·   Statistical     Complex systems   ·   Non-linear dynamics   ·   Biophysics     Neurophysics     Plasma  physics     Special relativity   ·   General relativity     Astrophysics   ·   Cosmology     Theories of gravitation     Quantum  gravity   ·   Theory of everything 
 
 Scientists Witten   ·   Röntgen   ·   Becquerel   ·   Lorentz   ·   Planck   ·   Curie   ·   Wien   ·   Skłodowska-Curie   ·   Sommerfeld   ·   Rutherford   ·   Soddy   ·   Onnes   ·   Einstein   ·   Wilczek   ·   Born   ·   Weyl   ·   Bohr   ·   Schrödinger   ·   de Broglie   ·   Laue   ·   Bose   ·   Compton   ·   Pauli   ·   Walton   ·   Fermi   ·   van der Waals   ·   Heisenberg   ·   Dyson   ·   Zeeman   ·   Moseley   ·   Hilbert   ·   Gödel   ·   Jordan   ·   Dirac   ·   Wigner   ·   Hawking   ·   P. W. Anderson   ·   Lemaître   ·   Thomson   ·   Poincaré   ·   Wheeler   ·   Penrose   ·   Millikan   ·   Nambu   ·   von Neumann   ·   Higgs   ·   Hahn   ·   Feynman   ·   Yang   ·   Lee   ·   Lenard   ·   Salam   ·   't Hooft   ·   Bell   ·   Gell-Mann   ·   J. J. Thomson    ·   Raman   ·   Bragg   ·   Bardeen   ·   Shockley   ·   Chadwick   ·   Lawrence   ·   Zeilinger   ·   Goudsmit   ·   Uhlenbeck 
 
 Categories ►     Modern  physics 
 v t e 
 Main article:  History of  quantum  mechanics 
 Scientific inquiry into the wave nature of light began in the 17th and 18th centuries, when scientists such as  Robert Hooke ,  Christiaan Huygens  and  Leonhard Euler  proposed a wave theory of light based on experimental observations. [5]  In 1803 English  polymath   Thomas Young  described the famous  double-slit experiment . [6]  This experiment played a major role in the general acceptance of the  wave theory of light .
 In 1838  Michael Faraday  discovered  cathode rays . These studies were followed by the 1859 statement of the  black-body radiation  problem by  Gustav Kirchhoff , the 1877 suggestion by  Ludwig Boltzmann  that the energy states of a physical system can be discrete, and the 1900  quantum  hypothesis of  Max Planck . [7]  Planck's hypothesis that energy is radiated and absorbed in discrete "quanta" (or energy packets) precisely matched the observed patterns of black-body radiation.
 In 1896  Wilhelm Wien  empirically determined a distribution law of black-body radiation, [8]  called  Wien's law . Ludwig Boltzmann independently arrived at this result by considerations of  Maxwell's equations . However, it was valid only at high frequencies and underestimated the radiance at low frequencies.
 The foundations of  quantum  mechanics were established during the first half of the 20th century by  Max Planck ,  Niels Bohr ,  Werner Heisenberg ,  Louis de Broglie ,  Arthur Compton ,  Albert Einstein ,  Erwin Schrödinger ,  Max Born ,  John von Neumann ,  Paul Dirac ,  Enrico Fermi ,  Wolfgang Pauli ,  Max von Laue ,  Freeman Dyson ,  David Hilbert ,  Wilhelm Wien ,  Satyendra Nath Bose ,  Arnold Sommerfeld , and  others . The  Copenhagen interpretation  of  Niels Bohr  became widely accepted.
 Max Planck  corrected this model using Boltzmann's statistical interpretation of thermodynamics and proposed what is now called  Planck's law , which led to the development of  quantum  mechanics. After Planck's solution in 1900 to the black-body radiation problem (reported 1859),  Albert Einstein  offered a  quantum -based explanation of the  photoelectric effect  (1905, reported 1887).  Around 1900–1910, the  atomic theory  but not the  corpuscular theory of light [9]  first came to be widely accepted as scientific fact; these latter theories can be considered  quantum  theories of  matter  and  electromagnetic radiation , respectively. However, the photon theory was not widely accepted until about 1915. Even until Einstein's Nobel Prize, Niels Bohr did not believe in the photon. [10] 
 Among the first to study  quantum  phenomena were  Arthur Compton ,  C. V. Raman , and  Pieter Zeeman , each of whom has a  quantum  effect named after him.  Robert Andrews Millikan  studied the  photoelectric effect  experimentally, and Albert Einstein developed a theory for it. At the same time,  Ernest Rutherford  experimentally discovered the nuclear model of the atom, and  Niels Bohr  developed a theory of atomic structure, confirmed by the experiments of  Henry Moseley . In 1913  Peter Debye  extended Bohr's theory by introducing  elliptical orbits , a concept also introduced by  Arnold Sommerfeld . [11]  This phase is known as  old  quantum  theory .
 According to Planck, each energy element ( E )   is proportional to its  frequency  ( ν ):
 
 
 
 
 
 E 
 = 
 h 
 ν  ν  
   
 
 
 {\displaystyle E=h\nu \ } 
 
 , 
   Max Planck  is considered the father of the  quantum  theory. 
 where  h  is  Planck's constant .
 Planck cautiously insisted that this was only an aspect of the processes of absorption and emission of radiation and was not the  physical reality  of the radiation. [12]  In fact, he considered his  quantum  hypothesis a mathematical trick to get the right answer rather than a sizable discovery. [13]  However, in 1905  Albert Einstein  interpreted Planck's  quantum  hypothesis  realistically  and used it to explain the  photoelectric effect , in which shining light on certain materials can eject electrons from the material. Einstein won the 1921 Nobel Prize in  Physics  for this work.
 Einstein further developed this idea to show that an  electromagnetic wave  such as light could also be described as a particle (later called the  photon ), with a discrete amount of energy that depends on its frequency. [14]   In his paper “On the  Quantum  Theory of Radiation,” Einstein expanded on the interaction between energy and matter to explain the absorption and emission of energy by atoms. Although overshadowed at the time by his general theory of relativity, this paper articulated the mechanism underlying the stimulated emission of radiation, [15]  which became the basis of the  laser .
 
   The 1927  Solvay Conference  in  Brussels  was the fifth world  physics  conference. 
 In the mid-1920s  quantum  mechanics was developed to become the standard formulation for atomic  physics . In the summer of 1925, Bohr and Heisenberg published results that closed the old  quantum  theory. Due to their particle-like behavior in certain processes and measurements, light quanta came to be called  photons  (1926). In 1926  Erwin Schrödinger  suggested a partial differential equation for the wave functions of particles like electrons. And when effectively restricted to a finite region, this equation allowed only certain modes, corresponding to discrete  quantum  states – whose properties turned out to be exactly the same as implied by matrix mechanics. [16]  Einstein's simple postulation spurred a flurry of debate, theorizing, and testing. Thus, the entire field of  quantum   physics  emerged, leading to its wider acceptance at the Fifth  Solvay Conference  in 1927. [17] 
 It was found that  subatomic particles  and electromagnetic waves are neither simply particle nor wave but have certain properties of each. This originated the concept of  wave–particle duality . [18] 
 By 1930  quantum  mechanics had been further unified and formalized by  David Hilbert ,  Paul Dirac  and  John von Neumann [19]  with greater emphasis on  measurement , the statistical nature of our knowledge of reality, and  philosophical speculation about the 'observer' . [20]  It has since permeated many disciplines, including  quantum  chemistry,  quantum  electronics ,  quantum  optics , and  quantum  information science . It also provides a useful framework for many features of the modern  periodic table of elements , and describes the behaviors of  atoms  during  chemical bonding  and the flow of  electrons  in computer  semiconductors , and therefore plays a crucial role in many modern technologies. [18]  Its speculative modern developments include  string theory  and  quantum  gravity  theory.
 While  quantum  mechanics was constructed to describe the world of the very small, it is also needed to explain some  macroscopic  phenomena such as  superconductors [21]  and  superfluids . [22] 
 The word  quantum  derives from the  Latin , meaning "how great" or "how much". [23]  In  quantum  mechanics, it refers to a discrete unit assigned to certain  physical quantities  such as the  energy  of an  atom  at rest (see Figure 1). The discovery that particles are discrete packets of energy with wave-like properties led to the branch of  physics  dealing with atomic and subatomic systems which is today called  quantum  mechanics. It underlies the  mathematical  framework of many fields of  physics  and  chemistry , including  condensed matter  physics ,  solid-state  physics ,  atomic  physics ,  molecular  physics ,  computational  physics ,  computational chemistry ,  quantum  chemistry,  particle  physics ,  nuclear chemistry , and  nuclear  physics . [24] [ better source needed ]  Some fundamental aspects of the theory are still actively studied. [25] 
 Quantum  mechanics is essential for understanding the behavior of systems at  atomic  length scales and smaller. If the physical nature of an atom were solely described by  classical mechanics , electrons would not  orbit  the nucleus, since orbiting electrons emit radiation (due to  circular motion ) and so would quickly lose energy and collide with the nucleus. This framework was unable to explain the stability of atoms. Instead, electrons remain in an uncertain, non-deterministic,  smeared ,  probabilistic  wave–particle  orbital  about the nucleus, defying the traditional assumptions of classical mechanics and  electromagnetism . [26] 
 Quantum  mechanics was initially developed to provide a better explanation and description of the atom, especially the differences in the  spectra  of light emitted by different  isotopes  of the same  chemical element , as well as subatomic particles. In short, the  quantum -mechanical atomic model has succeeded spectacularly in the realm where classical mechanics and electromagnetism falter.
 Broadly speaking,  quantum  mechanics incorporates four classes of phenomena for which classical  physics  cannot account [20] :
 
 quantization  of  certain physical properties 
 quantum  entanglement 
 principle of uncertainty 
 wave–particle duality 
 Mathematical formulations [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Mathematical formulation of  quantum  mechanics 
 See also:  Quantum  logic 
 In the mathematically rigorous formulation of  quantum  mechanics developed by  Paul Dirac , [27]   David Hilbert , [28]   John von Neumann , [29]  and  Hermann Weyl , [30]  the possible states of a  quantum  mechanical system are symbolized [31]  as  unit vectors  (called  state vectors ). Formally, these vectors are elements of a  complex   separable   Hilbert space  – variously called the  state space  or the  associated Hilbert space  of the system – that is well defined up to a complex number of norm 1 (the phase factor). In other words, the possible states are points in the  projective space  of a Hilbert space, usually called the  complex projective space . The exact nature of this Hilbert space is dependent on the system – for example, the state space for position and momentum states is the space of  square-integrable  functions, while the state space for the spin of a single proton is just the product of two complex planes. Each observable is represented by a maximally  Hermitian  (precisely: by a  self-adjoint ) linear  operator  acting on the state space. Each  eigenstate  of an observable corresponds to an  eigenvector  of the operator, and the associated  eigenvalue  corresponds to the value of the observable in that eigenstate. If the operator's spectrum is discrete, the observable can attain only those discrete eigenvalues.
 In the formalism of  quantum  mechanics, the state of a system at a given time is described by a  complex   wave function , also referred to as state vector in a complex  vector space . [32]  This abstract mathematical object allows for the calculation of  probabilities  of outcomes of concrete experiments. For example, it allows one to compute the probability of finding an electron in a particular region around the nucleus at a particular time. Contrary to classical mechanics, one can never make simultaneous predictions of  conjugate variables , such as position and momentum, to arbitrary precision. For instance, electrons may be considered (to a certain probability) to be located somewhere within a given region of space, but with their exact positions unknown. Contours of constant probability density, often referred to as "clouds", may be drawn around the nucleus of an atom to conceptualize where the electron might be located with the most probability. Heisenberg's  uncertainty principle  quantifies the inability to precisely locate the particle given its conjugate momentum. [33] 
 According to one interpretation, as the result of a measurement, the wave function containing the probability information for a system  collapses  from a given initial state to a particular eigenstate. The possible results of a measurement are the eigenvalues of the operator representing the observable – which explains the choice of  Hermitian  operators, for which all the eigenvalues are real. The probability distribution of an observable in a given state can be found by computing the  spectral decomposition  of the corresponding operator. Heisenberg's  uncertainty principle  is represented by the statement that the operators corresponding to certain observables do not  commute .
 The  probabilistic  nature of  quantum  mechanics thus stems from the act of measurement. This is one of the most difficult aspects of  quantum  systems to understand. It was the central topic in the famous  Bohr–Einstein debates , in which the two scientists attempted to clarify these fundamental principles by way of  thought experiments . In the decades after the formulation of  quantum  mechanics, the question of what constitutes a "measurement" has been extensively studied. Newer  interpretations of  quantum  mechanics  have been formulated that do away with the concept of " wave function collapse " (see, for example, the  relative state interpretation ). The basic idea is that when a  quantum  system interacts with a measuring apparatus, their respective wave functions become  entangled , so that the original  quantum  system ceases to exist as an independent entity. For details, see the article on  measurement in  quantum  mechanics . [34] 
 Generally,  quantum  mechanics does not assign definite values. Instead, it makes a prediction using a  probability distribution ; that is, it describes the probability of obtaining the possible outcomes from measuring an observable. Often these results are skewed by many causes, such as dense probability clouds. Probability clouds are approximate (but better than  the Bohr model ) whereby electron location is given by a  probability function , the  wave function   eigenvalue , such that the probability is the squared modulus of the  complex amplitude , or  quantum  state  nuclear attraction. [35] [36]  Naturally, these probabilities will depend on the  quantum  state at the "instant" of the measurement. Hence, uncertainty is involved in the value. There are, however, certain states that are associated with a definite value of a particular observable. These are known as  eigenstates  of the observable ("eigen" can be translated from German as meaning "inherent" or "characteristic"). [37] 
 In the everyday world, it is natural and intuitive to think of everything (every observable) as being in an eigenstate. Everything appears to have a definite position, a definite momentum, a definite energy, and a definite time of occurrence. However,  quantum  mechanics does not pinpoint the exact values of a particle's position and momentum (since they are  conjugate pairs ) or its energy and time (since they too are conjugate pairs).  Rather, it provides only a range of probabilities in which that particle might be given its momentum and momentum probability. Therefore, it is helpful to use different words to describe states having  uncertain  values and states having  definite  values (eigenstates).
 Usually, a system will not be in an  eigenstate  of the observable (particle) we are interested in. However, if one measures the observable, the wave function will instantaneously be an eigenstate (or "generalized" eigenstate) of that observable. This process is known as  wave function collapse , a controversial and much-debated process [38]  that involves expanding the system under study to include the measurement device. If one knows the corresponding wave function at the instant before the measurement, one will be able to compute the probability of the wave function collapsing into each of the possible eigenstates.
 For example, the free particle in the previous example will usually have a wave function that is a  wave packet  centered around some mean position  x 0  (neither an eigenstate of position nor of momentum). When one measures the position of the particle, it is impossible to predict with certainty the result. [34]  It is probable, but not certain, that it will be near  x 0 , where the amplitude of the wave function is large. After the measurement is performed, having obtained some result  x , the wave function collapses into a position eigenstate centered at  x . [39] 
 The time evolution of a  quantum  state is described by the  Schrödinger equation , in which the  Hamiltonian  (the  operator  corresponding to the  total energy  of the system) generates the time evolution. The  time evolution  of wave functions is  deterministic  in the sense that – given a wave function at an  initial  time – it makes a definite prediction of what the wave function will be at any  later  time. [40] 
 During a  measurement , on the other hand, the change of the initial wave function into another, later wave function is not deterministic, it is unpredictable (i.e.,  random ). A time-evolution simulation can be seen here. [41] [42] 
 Wave functions change as time progresses. The  Schrödinger equation  describes how wave functions change in time, playing a role similar to  Newton's second law  in  classical mechanics . The Schrödinger equation, applied to the aforementioned example of the free particle, predicts that the center of a wave packet will move through space at a constant velocity (like a classical particle with no forces acting on it). However, the wave packet will also spread out as time progresses, which means that the position becomes more uncertain with time. This also has the effect of turning a position eigenstate (which can be thought of as an infinitely sharp wave packet) into a broadened wave packet that no longer represents a (definite, certain) position eigenstate. [43] 
 
   Fig. 1:  Probability densities  corresponding to the wave functions of an electron in a hydrogen atom possessing definite energy levels (increasing from the top of the image to the bottom:  n  = 1, 2, 3, ...) and angular momenta (increasing across from left to right:  s ,  p ,  d , ...). Denser areas correspond to higher probability density in a position measurement. Such wave functions are directly comparable to  Chladni's figures  of  acoustic  modes of vibration in  classical  physics  and are modes of oscillation as well, possessing a sharp  energy  and thus, a definite  frequency . The  angular momentum  and energy are  quantized  and take  only  discrete values like those shown (as is the case for  resonant frequencies  in acoustics) 
 Some wave functions produce probability distributions that are constant, or independent of time – such as when in a  stationary state  of definite energy, time vanishes in the absolute square of the wave function (this is the basis for the energy-time uncertainty principle). Many systems that are treated dynamically in classical mechanics are described by such "static" wave functions. For example, a single  electron  in an unexcited  atom  is pictured classically as a particle moving in a circular trajectory around the  atomic nucleus , whereas in  quantum  mechanics, it is described by a static,  spherically symmetric  wave function surrounding the nucleus ( Fig. 1 ) (however, only the lowest angular momentum states, labeled  s , are spherically symmetric.) [44] 
 The Schrödinger equation acts on the  entire  probability amplitude, not merely its absolute value. Whereas the absolute value of the probability amplitude encodes information about probabilities, its  phase  encodes information about the  interference  between  quantum  states. This gives rise to the "wave-like" behavior of  quantum  states.
 Analytic solutions of the Schrödinger equation are known for  very few relatively simple model Hamiltonians  including the  quantum  harmonic oscillator , the  particle in a box , the  dihydrogen cation , and the  hydrogen atom . Even the  helium  atom – which contains just two electrons – has defied all attempts at a fully analytic treatment.
 However, there are techniques for finding approximate solutions. One method, called  perturbation theory , uses the analytic result for a simple  quantum  mechanical model to create a result for a related but more complicated model by (for example) the addition of a weak  potential energy . Another method is called "semi-classical equation of motion", which applies to systems for which  quantum  mechanics produces only small deviations from classical behavior. These deviations can then be computed based on the classical motion. This approach is particularly important in the field of  quantum  chaos .
 
 Mathematically equivalent formulations [ edit ] 
 There are many mathematically equivalent formulations of  quantum  mechanics. One of the oldest and most common is the " transformation theory " proposed by  Paul Dirac , which unifies and generalizes the two earliest formulations of  quantum  mechanics –  matrix mechanics  (invented by  Werner Heisenberg ) and  wave mechanics  (invented by  Erwin Schrödinger ). [45] 
 Especially since Heisenberg was awarded the  Nobel Prize in  Physics  in 1932 for the creation of  quantum  mechanics, the role of  Max Born  in the development of QM was overlooked until the 1954 Nobel award. The role is noted in a 2005 biography of Born, which recounts his role in the matrix formulation and the use of probability amplitudes. Heisenberg acknowledges having learned matrices from Born, as published in a 1940  festschrift  honoring  Max Planck . [46]   In the matrix formulation, the instantaneous state of a  quantum  system encodes the probabilities of its measurable properties, or " observables ". Examples of observables include  energy ,  position ,  momentum , and  angular momentum . Observables can be either  continuous  (e.g., the position of a particle) or  discrete  (e.g., the energy of an electron bound to a hydrogen atom). [47]  An alternative formulation of  quantum  mechanics is  Feynman 's  path integral formulation , in which a  quantum -mechanical amplitude is considered as a sum over all possible classical and non-classical paths between the initial and final states. This is the  quantum -mechanical counterpart of the  action principle  in classical mechanics.
 
 Relation to other scientific theories [ edit ] 
 The rules of  quantum  mechanics are fundamental. They assert that the state space of a system is a  Hilbert space  (crucially, that the space has an  inner product ) and that observables of the system are  Hermitian operators  acting on vectors in that space – although they do not tell us which Hilbert space or which operators. These can be chosen appropriately in order to obtain a quantitative description of a  quantum  system. An important guide for making these choices is the  correspondence principle , which states that the predictions of  quantum  mechanics reduce to those of classical mechanics when a system moves to higher energies or, equivalently, larger  quantum  numbers, i.e. whereas a single particle exhibits a degree of randomness, in systems incorporating millions of particles averaging takes over and, at the high energy limit, the statistical probability of random behaviour approaches zero. In other words, classical mechanics is simply a  quantum  mechanics of large systems. This "high energy" limit is known as the  classical  or  correspondence limit . One can even start from an established classical model of a particular system, then try to guess the underlying  quantum  model that would give rise to the classical model in the correspondence limit.
 
 
 
 
 Unsolved problem in  physics : In the  correspondence limit  of  quantum  mechanics : Is there a preferred interpretation of  quantum  mechanics? How does the  quantum  description of reality, which includes elements such as the " superposition  of states" and " wave function collapse ", give rise to the reality we perceive? (more unsolved problems in  physics ) 
 
 When  quantum  mechanics was originally formulated, it was applied to models whose correspondence limit was  non-relativistic   classical mechanics . For instance, the well-known model of the  quantum  harmonic oscillator  uses an explicitly non-relativistic expression for the  kinetic energy  of the oscillator, and is thus a  quantum  version of the  classical harmonic oscillator .
 Early attempts to merge  quantum  mechanics with  special relativity  involved the replacement of the Schrödinger equation with a covariant equation such as the  Klein–Gordon equation  or the  Dirac equation . While these theories were successful in explaining many experimental results, they had certain unsatisfactory qualities stemming from their neglect of the relativistic creation and annihilation of particles. A fully relativistic  quantum  theory required the development of  quantum  field theory , which applies quantization to a field (rather than a fixed set of particles). The first complete  quantum  field theory,  quantum  electrodynamics , provides a fully  quantum  description of the  electromagnetic interaction . The full apparatus of  quantum  field theory is often unnecessary for describing electrodynamic systems. A simpler approach, one that has been used since the inception of  quantum  mechanics, is to treat  charged  particles as  quantum  mechanical objects being acted on by a classical  electromagnetic field . For example, the elementary  quantum  model of the  hydrogen atom  describes the  electric field  of the hydrogen atom using a classical  
 
 
 
 
 −  −  
 
 e 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 / 
 
 ( 
 4 
 π  π  
 
 ϵ  ϵ  
 
 
 
 
 0 
 
 
 
 
 r 
 ) 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \textstyle -e^{2}/(4\pi \epsilon _{_{0}}r)} 
 
   Coulomb potential . This "semi-classical" approach fails if  quantum  fluctuations in the electromagnetic field play an important role, such as in the emission of  photons  by  charged particles .
 Quantum  field  theories for the  strong nuclear force  and the  weak nuclear force  have also been developed. The  quantum  field theory of the strong nuclear force is called  quantum  chromodynamics , and describes the interactions of subnuclear particles such as  quarks  and  gluons . The weak nuclear force and the  electromagnetic force  were unified, in their quantized forms, into a single  quantum  field theory (known as  electroweak theory ), by the physicists  Abdus Salam ,  Sheldon Glashow  and  Steven Weinberg . These three men shared the Nobel Prize in  Physics  in 1979 for this work. [48] 
 It has proven difficult to construct  quantum  models of  gravity , the remaining  fundamental force . Semi-classical approximations are workable, and have led to predictions such as  Hawking radiation . However, the formulation of a complete theory of  quantum  gravity  is hindered by apparent incompatibilities between  general relativity  (the most accurate theory of gravity currently known) and some of the fundamental assumptions of  quantum  theory. The resolution of these incompatibilities is an area of active research. Candidates for a future theory of  quantum  gravity include  string theory .
 Classical mechanics has also been extended into the  complex domain , with complex classical mechanics exhibiting behaviors similar to  quantum  mechanics. [49] 
 
 Relation to classical  physics [ edit ] 
 Predictions of  quantum  mechanics have been verified experimentally to an extremely high degree of  accuracy . [50]  According to the  correspondence principle  between classical and  quantum  mechanics, all objects obey the laws of  quantum  mechanics, and classical mechanics is just an approximation for large systems of objects (or a statistical  quantum  mechanics of a large collection of particles). [51]  The laws of classical mechanics thus follow from the laws of  quantum  mechanics as a statistical average at the limit of large systems or large  quantum  numbers  ( Ehrenfest theorem ). [52] [53]  However,  chaotic systems  do not have good  quantum  numbers, and  quantum  chaos  studies the relationship between classical and  quantum  descriptions in these systems.
 Quantum  coherence  is an essential difference between classical and  quantum  theories as illustrated by the  Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen (EPR) paradox  – an attack on a certain philosophical interpretation of  quantum  mechanics by an appeal to  local realism . [54]   Quantum  interference  involves adding together  probability amplitudes , whereas classical "waves" infer that there is an adding together of  intensities . For microscopic bodies, the extension of the system is much smaller than the  coherence length , which gives rise to long-range entanglement and other nonlocal phenomena characteristic of  quantum  systems. [55]   Quantum  coherence is not typically evident at macroscopic scales, except maybe at temperatures approaching  absolute zero  at which  quantum  behavior may manifest macroscopically. [56]  This is in accordance with the following observations:
 
 Many macroscopic properties of a classical system are a direct consequence of the  quantum  behavior of its parts. For example, the stability of bulk matter (consisting of atoms and  molecules  which would quickly collapse under electric forces alone), the rigidity of solids, and the mechanical, thermal, chemical, optical and magnetic properties of matter are all results of the interaction of  electric charges  under the rules of  quantum  mechanics. [57] 
 While the seemingly "exotic" behavior of matter posited by  quantum  mechanics and relativity theory become more apparent for extremely small particles or for velocities approaching the  speed of light , the laws of classical, often considered " Newtonian ",  physics  remain accurate in predicting the behavior of the vast majority of "large" objects (on the order of the size of large molecules or bigger) at velocities much smaller than the  velocity of light . [58] 
 Copenhagen interpretation of  quantum  versus classical kinematics [ edit ] 
 A big difference between classical and  quantum  mechanics is that they use very different kinematic descriptions. [59] 
 In  Niels Bohr 's mature view,  quantum  mechanical phenomena are required to be experiments, with complete descriptions of all the devices for the system, preparative, intermediary, and finally measuring. The descriptions are in macroscopic terms, expressed in ordinary language, supplemented with the concepts of classical mechanics. [60] [61] [62] [63]  The initial condition and the final condition of the system are respectively described by values in a configuration space, for example a position space, or some equivalent space such as a momentum space.  Quantum  mechanics does not admit a completely precise description, in terms of both position and momentum, of an initial condition or "state" (in the classical sense of the word) that would support a precisely deterministic and causal prediction of a final condition. [64] [65]  In this sense, a  quantum  phenomenon is a process, a passage from initial to final condition, not an instantaneous "state" in the classical sense of that word. [66] [67]  Thus there are two kinds of processes in  quantum  mechanics: stationary and transitional. For a stationary process, the initial and final condition are the same. For a transition, they are different. Obviously by definition, if only the initial condition is given, the process is not determined. [64]  Given its initial condition, prediction of its final condition is possible, causally but only probabilistically, because the Schrödinger equation is deterministic for wave function evolution, but the wave function describes the system only probabilistically. [68] [69] 
 For many experiments, it is possible to think of the initial and final conditions of the system as being a particle. In some cases it appears that there are potentially several spatially distinct pathways or trajectories by which a particle might pass from initial to final condition. It is an important feature of the  quantum  kinematic description that it does not permit a unique definite statement of which of those pathways is actually followed. Only the initial and final conditions are definite, and, as stated in the foregoing paragraph, they are defined only as precisely as allowed by the configuration space description or its equivalent. In every case for which a  quantum  kinematic description is needed, there is always a compelling reason for this restriction of kinematic precision. An example of such a reason is that for a particle to be experimentally found in a definite position, it must be held motionless; for it to be experimentally found to have a definite momentum, it must have free motion; these two are logically incompatible. [70] [71] 
 Classical kinematics does not primarily demand experimental description of its phenomena. It allows completely precise description of an instantaneous state by a value in phase space, the Cartesian product of configuration and momentum spaces. This description simply assumes or imagines a state as a physically existing entity without concern about its experimental measurability. Such a description of an initial condition, together with Newton's laws of motion, allows a precise deterministic and causal prediction of a final condition, with a definite trajectory of passage.  Hamiltonian  dynamics can be used for this. Classical kinematics also allows the description of a process analogous to the initial and final condition description used by  quantum  mechanics.  Lagrangian mechanics  applies to this. [72]  For processes that need account to be taken of actions of a small number of  Planck constants , classical kinematics is not adequate;  quantum  mechanics is needed.
 
 Relation to general relativity [ edit ] 
 Even with the defining postulates of both Einstein's theory of general relativity and  quantum  theory being indisputably supported by rigorous and repeated  empirical evidence , and while they do not directly contradict each other theoretically (at least with regard to their primary claims), they have proven extremely difficult to incorporate into one consistent, cohesive model. [73] 
 Gravity is negligible in many areas of particle  physics , so that unification between general relativity and  quantum  mechanics is not an urgent issue in those particular applications. However, the lack of a correct theory of  quantum  gravity  is an important issue in  physical cosmology  and the search by physicists for an elegant " Theory of Everything " (TOE). Consequently, resolving the inconsistencies between both theories has been a major goal of 20th- and 21st-century  physics . Many prominent physicists, including  Stephen Hawking , worked for many years to create a theory underlying  everything . This TOE would combine not only the models of subatomic  physics , but also derive the four  fundamental forces of nature  – the  strong force ,  electromagnetism , the  weak force , and  gravity  – from a single force or phenomenon. However, after considering  Gödel's Incompleteness Theorem , Hawking concluded that a theory of everything is not possible, and stated so publicly in his lecture "Gödel and the End of  Physics " (2002). [74] 
 
 Attempts at a unified field theory [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Grand unified theory 
 The quest to unify the  fundamental forces  through  quantum  mechanics is ongoing.  Quantum  electrodynamics  (or " quantum  electromagnetism"), which is (at least in the perturbative regime) the most accurately tested physical theory in competition with general relativity, [75] [76]  has been merged with the weak nuclear force into the  electroweak force ; work continues, to merge it with the strong force into the  electrostrong force . Current predictions state that at around 10 14  GeV these three forces fuse into a single field. [77]  Beyond this "grand unification", it is speculated that it may be possible to merge gravity with the other three gauge symmetries, expected to occur at roughly 10 19  GeV. However  –  and while special relativity is parsimoniously incorporated into  quantum  electrodynamics  –  the expanded  general relativity , currently the best theory describing the gravitation force, has not been fully incorporated into  quantum  theory. One of those searching for a coherent TOE is  Edward Witten , a theoretical physicist who formulated the  M-theory , which is an attempt at describing the supersymmetrical based  string theory . M-theory posits that our apparent  4-dimensional spacetime  is, in reality, actually an 11-dimensional spacetime containing 10 spatial dimensions and 1 time dimension, although 7 of the spatial dimensions are – at lower energies – completely "compactified" (or infinitely curved) and not readily amenable to measurement or probing.
 Another popular theory is  loop  quantum  gravity  (LQG) proposed by  Carlo Rovelli , that describes  quantum  properties of gravity. It is also a theory of  quantum  spacetime  and  quantum  time , because in general relativity the geometry of spacetime is a manifestation of  gravity . LQG is an attempt to merge and adapt standard  quantum  mechanics and standard  general relativity . This theory describes space as granular analogous to the granularity of photons in the  quantum  theory of electromagnetism and the discrete energy levels of atoms. More precisely, space is an extremely fine fabric or networks "woven" of finite loops called  spin networks . The evolution of a spin network over time is called a spin foam. The predicted size of this structure is the  Planck length , which is approximately 1.616×10 −35  m. According to this theory, there is no meaning to length shorter than this (cf.  Planck scale  energy).
 
 Philosophical implications [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Interpretations of  quantum  mechanics 
 Since its inception, the many  counter-intuitive  aspects and results of  quantum  mechanics have provoked strong  philosophical  debates and many  interpretations . Even fundamental issues, such as  Max Born 's basic  rules  about  probability amplitudes  and  probability distributions , took decades to be appreciated by society and many leading scientists.  Richard Feynman  once said, "I think I can safely say that nobody understands  quantum  mechanics." [78]   According to  Steven Weinberg , "There is now in my opinion no entirely satisfactory interpretation of  quantum  mechanics." [79] 
 The  Copenhagen interpretation  – due largely to Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg – remains most widely accepted some 75 years after its enunciation. According to this interpretation, the probabilistic nature of  quantum  mechanics is not a  temporary  feature which will eventually be replaced by a deterministic theory, but is instead a  final  renunciation of the classical idea of "causality". It also states that any well-defined application of the  quantum  mechanical formalism must always make reference to the experimental arrangement, due to the  conjugate  nature of evidence obtained under different experimental situations.
 Albert Einstein, himself one of the founders of  quantum  theory, did not accept some of the more philosophical or metaphysical interpretations of  quantum  mechanics, such as rejection of  determinism  and of  causality . He famously said about this, "God does not play with dice". [80]  He rejected the concept that the state of a physical system depends on the experimental arrangement for its measurement. He held that a state of nature occurs in its own right, regardless of whether or how it might be observed. That view is supported by the currently accepted definition of a  quantum  state, which does not depend on the configuration space for its representation, that is to say, manner of observation. Einstein also believed that underlying  quantum  mechanics must be a theory that thoroughly and directly expresses the rule against  action at a distance ; in other words, he insisted on the  principle of locality . He considered, but rejected on theoretical grounds, a particular proposal for hidden variables to obviate the indeterminism or acausality of  quantum  mechanical measurement. He believed that  quantum  mechanics was a currently valid but not a permanently definitive theory for  quantum  phenomena. He thought its future replacement would require profound conceptual advances, and would not come quickly or easily. The  Bohr-Einstein debates  provide a vibrant critique of the Copenhagen Interpretation from an  epistemological  point of view. In arguing for his views, he produced a series of objections, of which the most famous has become known as the  Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen paradox .
 John Bell  showed that this  EPR paradox  led to  experimentally testable differences  between  quantum  mechanics and theories that rely on local hidden variables.  Experiments  confirmed the accuracy of  quantum  mechanics, thereby showing that  quantum  mechanics cannot be improved upon by addition of local hidden variables. [81]  Alain Aspect's experiments in 1982 and many later experiments definitively verified  quantum  entanglement. Entanglement, as demonstrated in Bell-type experiments, does not violate  causality , since it does not involve transfer of information.  By the early 1980s, experiments had shown that such inequalities were indeed violated in practice – so that there were in fact correlations of the kind suggested by  quantum  mechanics. At first these just seemed like isolated esoteric effects, but by the mid-1990s, they were being codified in the field of  quantum  information theory, and led to constructions with names like  quantum  cryptography  and  quantum  teleportation . [82]   Quantum  cryptography  is proposed for use in high-security applications in banking and government.
 The  Everett many-worlds interpretation , formulated in 1956, holds that  all  the possibilities described by  quantum  theory  simultaneously  occur in a  multiverse  composed of mostly independent parallel universes. [83]  This is not accomplished by introducing a "new axiom" to  quantum  mechanics, but by  removing  the axiom of the collapse of the wave packet.  All  possible consistent states of the measured system and the measuring apparatus (including the observer) are present in a  real  physical – not just formally mathematical, as in other interpretations –  quantum  superposition . Such a superposition of consistent state combinations of different systems is called an  entangled state . While the multiverse is deterministic, we perceive non-deterministic behavior governed by probabilities, because we can only observe the universe (i.e., the consistent state contribution to the aforementioned superposition) that we, as observers, inhabit. Everett's interpretation is perfectly consistent with  John Bell 's experiments and makes them intuitively understandable. However, according to the theory of  quantum  decoherence , these "parallel universes" will never be accessible to us. The inaccessibility can be understood as follows: once a measurement is done, the measured system becomes  entangled  with  both  the physicist who measured it  and  a huge number of other particles, some of which are  photons  flying away at the  speed of light  towards the other end of the universe. In order to prove that the wave function did not collapse, one would have to bring  all  these particles back and measure them again, together with the system that was originally measured. Not only is this completely impractical, but even if one  could  theoretically do this, it would have to destroy any evidence that the original measurement took place (including the physicist's memory).
 In light of the  Bell tests , Cramer in 1986 formulated his  transactional interpretation [84]  which is unique in providing a physical explanation for the  Born rule . [85]   Relational  quantum  mechanics  appeared in the late 1990s as the modern derivative of the  Copenhagen Interpretation .
 
 Applications [ edit ] 
 Quantum  mechanics has had enormous [18]  success in explaining many of the features of our universe.  Quantum  mechanics is often the only theory that can reveal the individual behaviors of the  subatomic particles  that make up all forms of matter ( electrons ,  protons ,  neutrons ,  photons , and others).  Quantum  mechanics has strongly influenced  string theories , candidates for a  Theory of Everything  (see  reductionism ).
 Quantum  mechanics is also critically important for understanding how individual atoms are joined by covalent bonds to form  molecules . The application of  quantum  mechanics to  chemistry  is known as  quantum  chemistry.   Quantum  mechanics can also provide quantitative insight into  ionic  and  covalent bonding  processes by explicitly showing which molecules are energetically favorable to which others and the magnitudes of the energies involved. [86]  Furthermore, most of the calculations performed in modern  computational chemistry  rely on  quantum  mechanics.
 In many aspects modern technology operates at a scale where  quantum  effects are significant.
Important applications of  quantum  theory include  quantum  chemistry ,  quantum  optics ,  quantum  computing ,  superconducting magnets ,  light-emitting diodes , the  optical amplifier  and the  laser , the  transistor  and  semiconductors  such as the  microprocessor ,  medical and research imaging  such as  magnetic resonance imaging  and  electron microscopy . [87]  Explanations for many biological and physical phenomena are rooted in the nature of the chemical bond, most notably the macro-molecule  DNA . [88] 
 
 Electronics [ edit ] 
 Many modern electronic devices are designed using  quantum  mechanics. Examples include the  laser , the  transistor  (and thus the  microchip ), the  electron microscope , and  magnetic resonance imaging  (MRI). The study of  semiconductors  led to the invention of the  diode  and the  transistor , which are indispensable parts of modern  electronics  systems,  computer  and  telecommunication  devices. Another application is for making laser diode and  light emitting diode  which are a high-efficiency source of light.
 
   A working mechanism of a  resonant tunneling diode  device, based on the phenomenon of  quantum  tunneling  through  potential barriers . (Left:  band diagram ; Center:  transmission coefficient ; Right: current-voltage characteristics) As shown in the band diagram(left), although there are two barriers, electrons still tunnel through via the confined states between two barriers(center), conducting current. 
 Many electronic devices operate under effect of  quantum  tunneling . It even exists in the simple  light switch . The switch would not work if electrons could not  quantum  tunnel through the layer of oxidation on the metal contact surfaces.  Flash memory  chips found in  USB drives  use  quantum  tunneling to erase their memory cells. Some negative differential resistance devices also utilize  quantum  tunneling effect, such as  resonant tunneling diode . Unlike classical diodes, its current is carried by  resonant tunneling  through two or more  potential barriers  (see right figure). Its negative resistance behavior can only be understood with  quantum  mechanics: As the confined state moves close to  Fermi level , tunnel current increases. As it moves away, current decreases.  Quantum   mechanics is necessary to understanding and designing such electronic devices.
 
 Cryptography [ edit ] 
 Main article:  quantum  cryptography 
 Researchers are currently seeking robust methods of directly manipulating  quantum  states. Efforts are being made to more fully develop  quantum  cryptography , which will theoretically allow guaranteed secure transmission of information.
 An inherent advantage yielded by  quantum  cryptography when compared to classical  cryptography  is the detection of passive  eavesdropping . This is a natural result of the behavior of  quantum  bits; due to the  observer effect , if a bit in a superposition state were to be observed, the superposition state would collapse into an  eigenstate . Because the intended recipient was expecting to receive the bit in a superposition state, the intended recipient would know there was an attack, because the bit's state would no longer be in a superposition. [89] 
 
 Quantum  computing [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Quantum  computer 
 Another goal is the development of  quantum  computers , which are expected to perform certain computational tasks exponentially faster than classical  computers . Instead of using classical bits,  quantum  computers use  qubits , which can be in  superpositions  of states.  Quantum  programmers are able to  manipulate the superposition of qubits in order to solve problems that classical computing cannot do effectively, such as searching unsorted databases or  integer factorization .  IBM  claims that the advent of  quantum  computing may progress the fields of medicine, logistics, financial services,  artificial intelligence  and cloud security. [90] 
 Another active research topic is  quantum  teleportation , which deals with techniques to transmit  quantum  information over arbitrary distances.
 
 Macroscale  quantum  effects [ edit ] 
 While  quantum  mechanics primarily applies to the smaller atomic regimes of matter and energy, some systems exhibit  quantum  mechanical effects  on a large scale.  Superfluidity , the frictionless flow of a liquid at temperatures near  absolute zero , is one well-known example. So is the closely related phenomenon of  superconductivity , the frictionless flow of an electron gas in a conducting material (an  electric current ) at sufficiently low temperatures. The  fractional  quantum  Hall effect  is a  topological ordered  state which corresponds to patterns of long-range  quantum  entanglement . [91]  States with different topological orders (or different patterns of long range entanglements) cannot change into each other without a phase transition.
 
 Other phenomena [ edit ] 
 Quantum  theory also provides accurate descriptions for many previously unexplained phenomena, such as  black-body radiation  and the stability of the  orbitals  of electrons in atoms. It has also given insight into the workings of many different  biological systems , including  smell receptors  and  protein structures . [92]  Recent work on  photosynthesis  has provided evidence that  quantum  correlations play an essential role in this fundamental process of plants and many other organisms. [93]  Even so,  classical  physics  can often provide good approximations to results otherwise obtained by  quantum   physics , typically in circumstances with large numbers of particles or large  quantum  numbers . Since classical formulas are much simpler and easier to compute than  quantum  formulas, classical approximations are used and preferred when the system is large enough to render the effects of  quantum  mechanics insignificant.
 
 
 Examples [ edit ] 
 Free particle [ edit ] 
 For example, consider a  free particle . In  quantum  mechanics, a free matter is described by a wave function.  The particle properties of the matter become apparent when we measure its position and velocity.  The wave properties of the matter become apparent when we measure its wave properties like interference.  The  wave–particle duality  feature is incorporated in the relations of coordinates and operators in the formulation of  quantum  mechanics.  Since the matter is free (not subject to any interactions), its  quantum  state can be represented as a  wave  of arbitrary shape and extending over space as a  wave function . The position and momentum of the particle are  observables . The  Uncertainty Principle  states that both the position and the momentum cannot simultaneously be measured with complete precision. However, one  can  measure the position (alone) of a moving free particle, creating an eigenstate of position with a wave function that is very large (a  Dirac delta ) at a particular position  x , and zero everywhere else. If one performs a position measurement on such a wave function, the resultant  x  will be obtained with 100% probability (i.e., with full certainty, or complete precision). This is called an eigenstate of position – or, stated in mathematical terms, a  generalized position eigenstate ( eigendistribution ) . If the particle is in an eigenstate of position, then its momentum is completely unknown. On the other hand, if the particle is in an eigenstate of momentum, then its position is completely unknown. [94] 
In an eigenstate of momentum having a  plane wave  form, it can be shown that the  wavelength  is equal to  h/p , where  h  is  Planck's constant  and  p  is the momentum of the  eigenstate . [95] 
 
 Particle in a box [ edit ] 
   1-dimensional potential energy box (or infinite potential well) 
 Main article:  Particle in a box 
 The particle in a one-dimensional potential energy box is the most mathematically simple example where restraints lead to the quantization of energy levels. The box is defined as having zero potential energy everywhere  inside  a certain region, and therefore infinite potential energy everywhere  outside  that region. For the one-dimensional case in the  
 
 
 
 x 
 
 
 {\displaystyle x} 
 
  direction, the time-independent Schrödinger equation may be written [96] 
 
 
 
 
 
 −  −  
 
 
 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 2 
 
 
 
 2 
 m 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 d 
 
 2 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 
 d 
 
 x 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 = 
 E 
 ψ  ψ  
 . 
 
 
 {\displaystyle -{\frac {\hbar ^{2}}{2m}}{\frac {d^{2}\psi }{dx^{2}}}=E\psi .} 
 
 
 With the differential operator defined by
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 p 
 ^  ^  
 
 
 
 
 x 
 
 
 = 
 −  −  
 i 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 
 d 
 
 d 
 x 
 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle {\hat {p}}_{x}=-i\hbar {\frac {d}{dx}}} 
 
 
 the previous equation is evocative of the  classic kinetic energy analogue ,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 2 
 m 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 p 
 ^  ^  
 
 
 
 
 x 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 = 
 E 
 , 
 
 
 {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{2m}}{\hat {p}}_{x}^{2}=E,} 
 
 
 with state  
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi } 
 
  in this case having energy  
 
 
 
 E 
 
 
 {\displaystyle E} 
 
  coincident with the kinetic energy of the particle.
 The general solutions of the Schrödinger equation for the particle in a box are
 
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 A 
 
 e 
 
 i 
 k 
 x 
 
 
 + 
 B 
 
 e 
 
 −  −  
 i 
 k 
 x 
 
 
 
 
 E 
 = 
 
 
 
 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 2 
 
 
 
 k 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 m 
 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi (x)=Ae^{ikx}+Be^{-ikx}\qquad \qquad E={\frac {\hbar ^{2}k^{2}}{2m}}} 
 
 
 or, from  Euler's formula ,
 
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 C 
 sin 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 k 
 x 
 ) 
 + 
 D 
 cos 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 k 
 x 
 ) 
 . 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi (x)=C\sin(kx)+D\cos(kx).\!} 
 
 
 The infinite potential walls of the box determine the values of  
 
 
 
 C 
 , 
 D 
 , 
 
 
 {\displaystyle C,D,} 
 
  and  
 
 
 
 k 
 
 
 {\displaystyle k} 
 
  at  
 
 
 
 x 
 = 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle x=0} 
 
  and  
 
 
 
 x 
 = 
 L 
 
 
 {\displaystyle x=L} 
 
  where  
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi } 
 
  must be zero. Thus, at  
 
 
 
 x 
 = 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle x=0} 
 
 ,
 
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 ( 
 0 
 ) 
 = 
 0 
 = 
 C 
 sin 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 0 
 ) 
 + 
 D 
 cos 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 0 
 ) 
 = 
 D 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi (0)=0=C\sin(0)+D\cos(0)=D} 
 
 
 and  
 
 
 
 D 
 = 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle D=0} 
 
 . At  
 
 
 
 x 
 = 
 L 
 
 
 {\displaystyle x=L} 
 
 ,
 
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 ( 
 L 
 ) 
 = 
 0 
 = 
 C 
 sin 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 k 
 L 
 ) 
 , 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi (L)=0=C\sin(kL),} 
 
 
 in which  
 
 
 
 C 
 
 
 {\displaystyle C} 
 
  cannot be zero as this would conflict with the Born interpretation. Therefore, since  
 
 
 
 sin 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 k 
 L 
 ) 
 = 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \sin(kL)=0} 
 
 ,  
 
 
 
 k 
 L 
 
 
 {\displaystyle kL} 
 
  must be an integer multiple of  
 
 
 
 π  π  
 
 
 {\displaystyle \pi } 
 
 ,
 
 
 
 
 
 k 
 = 
 
 
 
 n 
 π  π  
 
 L 
 
 
 
 
 n 
 = 
 1 
 , 
 2 
 , 
 3 
 , 
 …  …  
 . 
 
 
 {\displaystyle k={\frac {n\pi }{L}}\qquad \qquad n=1,2,3,\ldots .} 
 
 
 The quantization of energy levels follows from this constraint on  
 
 
 
 k 
 , 
 
 
 {\displaystyle k,} 
 
  since
 
 
 
 
 E 
 = 
 
 
 
 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 2 
 
 
 
 π  π  
 
 2 
 
 
 
 n 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 m 
 
 L 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 = 
 
 
 
 
 n 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 h 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 m 
 
 L 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 . 
 
 
 {\displaystyle E={\frac {\hbar ^{2}\pi ^{2}n^{2}}{2mL^{2}}}={\frac {n^{2}h^{2}}{8mL^{2}}}.} 
 
 
 The ground state energy of the particles is  
 
 
 
 
 E 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle E_{1}} 
 
   for  
 
 
 
 n 
 = 
 1. 
 
 
 {\displaystyle n=1.} 
 
 
 The energy of the particle in the  
 
 
 
 n 
 
 
 {\displaystyle n} 
 
 th state is  
 
 
 
 
 E 
 
 n 
 
 
 = 
 
 n 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 E 
 
 1 
 
 
 , 
 
 n 
 = 
 2 
 , 
 3 
 , 
 4 
 , 
 …  …  
 
 
 {\displaystyle E_{n}=n^{2}E_{1},\;n=2,3,4,\dots } 
 
 
 Particle in a box with boundary condition  
 
 
 
 V 
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 0 
 , 
 
 −  −  
 a 
 
 / 
 
 2 
 < 
 x 
 < 
 + 
 a 
 
 / 
 
 2 
 
 
 {\displaystyle V(x)=0,\;-a/2<x<+a/2} 
 
 
 
   A particle in a box with a little change in the boundary condition. In this condition the general solution will be same, there will little change to the final result, since the boundary conditions are changed only slightly:
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 C 
 sin 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 k 
 x 
 ) 
 + 
 D 
 cos 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 k 
 x 
 ) 
 . 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi (x)=C\sin(kx)+D\cos(kx).} 
 
 
 At  
 
 
 
 x 
 = 
 0 
 , 
 
 
 {\displaystyle x=0,} 
 
  the wave function is not actually zero at all values of  
 
 
 
 n 
 . 
 
 
 {\displaystyle n.} 
 
 
 Clearly, from the wave function variation graph we have, At  
 
 
 
 n 
 = 
 1 
 , 
 3 
 , 
 5 
 , 
 …  …  
 , 
 
 
 {\displaystyle n=1,3,5,\dots ,} 
 
  the wave function follows a cosine curve with  
 
 
 
 x 
 = 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle x=0} 
 
  as the origin.
 
At  
 
 
 
 n 
 = 
 2 
 , 
 4 
 , 
 6 
 , 
 …  …  
 , 
 
 
 {\displaystyle n=2,4,6,\dots ,} 
 
  the wave function follows a sine curve with  
 
 
 
 x 
 = 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle x=0} 
 
  as the origin.    Wave Function Variation with x and n. 
 From this observation we can conclude that the wave function is alternatively sine and cosine.
So in this case the resultant wave equation is
 
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 n 
 
 
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 
 
 { 
 
 
 
 A 
 cos 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 
 k 
 
 n 
 
 
 x 
 ) 
 , 
 
 
 n 
 = 
 1 
 , 
 3 
 , 
 5 
 , 
 …  …  
 
 
 
 
 B 
 sin 
 ⁡  ⁡  
 ( 
 
 k 
 
 n 
 
 
 x 
 ) 
 , 
 
 
 n 
 = 
 2 
 , 
 4 
 , 
 6 
 , 
 …  …  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi _{n}(x)={\begin{cases}A\cos(k_{n}x),&n=1,3,5,\dots \\B\sin(k_{n}x),&n=2,4,6,\dots \end{cases}}} 
 
 
 
 Finite potential well [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Finite potential well 
 A finite potential well is the generalization of the infinite potential well problem to potential wells having finite depth.
 The finite potential well problem is mathematically more complicated than the infinite particle-in-a-box problem as the wave function is not pinned to zero at the walls of the well. Instead, the wave function must satisfy more complicated mathematical boundary conditions as it is nonzero in regions outside the well.
 
 Rectangular potential barrier [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Rectangular potential barrier 
 This is a model for the  quantum  tunneling  effect which plays an important role in the performance of modern technologies such as  flash memory  and  scanning tunneling microscopy .  Quantum  tunneling is central to physical phenomena involved in  superlattices .
 
 Harmonic oscillator [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Quantum  harmonic oscillator 
   Some trajectories of a  harmonic oscillator  (i.e. a ball attached to a  spring ) in  classical mechanics  (A-B) and  quantum  mechanics (C-H). In  quantum  mechanics, the position of the ball is represented by a  wave  (called the  wave function ), with the  real part  shown in blue and the  imaginary part  shown in red. Some of the trajectories (such as C, D, E, and F) are  standing waves  (or " stationary states "). Each standing-wave frequency is proportional to a possible  energy level  of the oscillator. This "energy quantization" does not occur in classical  physics , where the oscillator can have  any  energy. 
 As in the classical case, the potential for the  quantum  harmonic oscillator is given by
 
 
 
 
 
 V 
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 
 
 1 
 2 
 
 
 m 
 
 ω  ω  
 
 2 
 
 
 
 x 
 
 2 
 
 
 . 
 
 
 {\displaystyle V(x)={\frac {1}{2}}m\omega ^{2}x^{2}.} 
 
 
 This problem can either be treated by directly solving the Schrödinger equation, which is not trivial, or by using the more elegant "ladder method" first proposed by Paul Dirac. The  eigenstates  are given by
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 n 
 
 
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 2 
 
 n 
 
 
 
 n 
 ! 
 
 
 
 
 ⋅  ⋅  
 
 
 ( 
 
 
 
 m 
 ω  ω  
 
 
 π  π  
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 
 1 
 
 / 
 
 4 
 
 
 ⋅  ⋅  
 
 e 
 
 −  −  
 
 
 
 m 
 ω  ω  
 
 x 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 
 
 
 
 ⋅  ⋅  
 
 H 
 
 n 
 
 
 
 ( 
 
 
 
 
 
 m 
 ω  ω  
 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 
 
 x 
 
 ) 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi _{n}(x)={\sqrt {\frac {1}{2^{n}\,n!}}}\cdot \left({\frac {m\omega }{\pi \hbar }}\right)^{1/4}\cdot e^{-{\frac {m\omega x^{2}}{2\hbar }}}\cdot H_{n}\left({\sqrt {\frac {m\omega }{\hbar }}}x\right),\qquad } 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 n 
 = 
 0 
 , 
 1 
 , 
 2 
 , 
 …  …  
 . 
 
 
 {\displaystyle n=0,1,2,\ldots .} 
 
 
 where  H n  are the  Hermite polynomials 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 H 
 
 n 
 
 
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 ( 
 −  −  
 1 
 
 ) 
 
 n 
 
 
 
 e 
 
 
 x 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 d 
 
 n 
 
 
 
 d 
 
 x 
 
 n 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ( 
 
 e 
 
 −  −  
 
 x 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 , 
 
 
 {\displaystyle H_{n}(x)=(-1)^{n}e^{x^{2}}{\frac {d^{n}}{dx^{n}}}\left(e^{-x^{2}}\right),} 
 
 
 and the corresponding energy levels are
 
 
 
 
 
 
 E 
 
 n 
 
 
 = 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 ω  ω  
 
 ( 
 
 n 
 + 
 
 
 1 
 2 
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 . 
 
 
 {\displaystyle E_{n}=\hbar \omega \left(n+{1 \over 2}\right).} 
 
 
 This is another example illustrating the quantification of energy for bound states.
 
 Step potential [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Solution of Schrödinger equation for a step potential 
   Scattering at a finite potential step of height  V 0 , shown in green. The amplitudes and direction of left- and right-moving waves are indicated. Yellow is the incident wave, blue are reflected and transmitted waves, red does not occur.  E  >  V 0  for this figure. 
 The potential in this case is given by:
 
 
 
 
 
 V 
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 
 
 { 
 
 
 
 0 
 , 
 
 
 x 
 < 
 0 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 V 
 
 0 
 
 
 , 
 
 
 x 
 ≥  ≥  
 0. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle V(x)={\begin{cases}0,&x<0,\\V_{0},&x\geq 0.\end{cases}}} 
 
 
 The solutions are superpositions of left- and right-moving waves:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 1 
 
 
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 k 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ( 
 
 
 A 
 
 →  →  
 
 
 
 e 
 
 i 
 
 k 
 
 1 
 
 
 x 
 
 
 + 
 
 A 
 
 ←  ←  
 
 
 
 e 
 
 −  −  
 i 
 
 k 
 
 1 
 
 
 x 
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 
 x 
 < 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi _{1}(x)={\frac {1}{\sqrt {k_{1}}}}\left(A_{\rightarrow }e^{ik_{1}x}+A_{\leftarrow }e^{-ik_{1}x}\right)\qquad x<0} 
 
 
 and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ψ  ψ  
 
 2 
 
 
 ( 
 x 
 ) 
 = 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 k 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ( 
 
 
 B 
 
 →  →  
 
 
 
 e 
 
 i 
 
 k 
 
 2 
 
 
 x 
 
 
 + 
 
 B 
 
 ←  ←  
 
 
 
 e 
 
 −  −  
 i 
 
 k 
 
 2 
 
 
 x 
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 
 x 
 > 
 0 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \psi _{2}(x)={\frac {1}{\sqrt {k_{2}}}}\left(B_{\rightarrow }e^{ik_{2}x}+B_{\leftarrow }e^{-ik_{2}x}\right)\qquad x>0} 
 
 , 
 with coefficients A and B determined from the  boundary conditions  and by imposing a continuous  derivative  on the solution, and where the  wave vectors  are related to the energy via
 
 
 
 
 
 
 k 
 
 1 
 
 
 = 
 
 
 2 
 m 
 E 
 
 / 
 
 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle k_{1}={\sqrt {2mE/\hbar ^{2}}}} 
 
 
 and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 k 
 
 2 
 
 
 = 
 
 
 2 
 m 
 ( 
 E 
 −  −  
 
 V 
 
 0 
 
 
 ) 
 
 / 
 
 
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle k_{2}={\sqrt {2m(E-V_{0})/\hbar ^{2}}}} 
 
 . 
 Each term of the solution can be interpreted as an incident, reflected, or transmitted component of the wave, allowing the calculation of transmission and reflection coefficients. Notably, in contrast to classical mechanics, incident particles with energies greater than the potential step are partially reflected.
 
 See also [ edit ] 
 
 
 Physics  portal 
 
 Angular momentum diagrams ( quantum  mechanics) 
 Einstein's thought experiments 
 Hamiltonian ( quantum  mechanics) 
 Two-state  quantum  system 
 Fractional  quantum  mechanics 
 List of  quantum -mechanical systems with analytical solutions 
 List of textbooks on classical and  quantum  mechanics 
 Macroscopic  quantum  phenomena 
 Phase space formulation 
 Regularization ( physics ) 
 Spherical basis 
 
 Notes [ edit ] 
 
 
 ^   Born, M.  (1926). "Zur Quantenmechanik der Stoßvorgänge".  Zeitschrift für Physik .  37  (12): 863–867.  Bibcode : 1926ZPhy...37..863B .  doi : 10.1007/BF01397477 . CS1 maint: ref=harv ( link ) 
 
 ^   Feynman, Richard; Leighton, Robert; Sands, Matthew (1964).  The Feynman Lectures on  Physics , Vol. 3 . California Institute of Technology. p. 1.1.  ISBN   978-0201500646 . Archived from  the original  on 2018-11-26 . Retrieved  2017-01-03 . 
 
 ^   Jaeger, Gregg (September 2014). "What in the ( quantum ) world is macroscopic?".  American Journal of  Physics .  82  (9): 896–905.  Bibcode : 2014AmJPh..82..896J .  doi : 10.1119/1.4878358 . 
 
 ^   Section 3.2 of  Ballentine, Leslie E. (1970), "The Statistical Interpretation of  Quantum  Mechanics",  Reviews of Modern  Physics ,  42  (4): 358–381,  Bibcode : 1970RvMP...42..358B ,  doi : 10.1103/RevModPhys.42.358 .  This fact is experimentally well-known for example in  quantum  optics (see e.g. chap. 2 and Fig. 2.1   Leonhardt, Ulf (1997),  Measuring the  Quantum  State of Light , Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,  ISBN   0-521-49730-2 
 
 ^   Max Born  & Emil Wolf, Principles of Optics, 1999, Cambridge University Press 
 
 ^   "Thomas Young's experiment" .  www.cavendishscience.org . Retrieved  2017-07-23 . 
 
 ^   Mehra, J.; Rechenberg, H. (1982).  The historical development of  quantum  theory . New York: Springer-Verlag.  ISBN   978-0387906423 . 
 
 ^   Kragh, Helge (2002).  Quantum  Generations: A History of  Physics  in the Twentieth Century . Princeton University Press.  ISBN   978-0-691-09552-3 .   Extract of p. 58 
 
 ^   Ben-Menahem, Ari (2009).  Historical Encyclopedia of Natural and Mathematical Sciences, Volume 1 . Springer.  ISBN   978-3540688310 .   Extract of p, 3678 
 
 ^   Stachel, John (2009) “Bohr and the Photon”  Quantum  Reality, Relativistic Causality and the Closing of the Epistemically Circle. Dordrecht, Springer p. 79. 
 
 ^   E Arunan (2010).  "Peter Debye"   (PDF) .  Resonance .  15  (12): 1056–1059.  doi : 10.1007/s12045-010-0117-2 . 
 
 ^   Kuhn, T. S.  (1978).  Black-body theory and the  quantum  discontinuity 1894–1912 . Oxford: Clarendon Press.  ISBN   978-0195023831 . 
 
 ^   Kragh, Helge (1 December 2000),  Max Planck: the reluctant revolutionary , PhysicsWorld.com 
 
 ^   Einstein, A. (1905). "Über einen die Erzeugung und Verwandlung des Lichtes betreffenden heuristischen Gesichtspunkt" [On a heuristic point of view concerning the production and transformation of light].  Annalen der Physik .  17  (6): 132–148.  Bibcode : 1905AnP...322..132E .  doi : 10.1002/andp.19053220607 .  Reprinted in  The collected papers of Albert Einstein , John Stachel, editor, Princeton University Press, 1989, Vol. 2, pp. 149–166, in German; see also  Einstein's early work on the  quantum  hypothesis , ibid. pp. 134–148. 
 
 ^   EINSTEIN, A. (1967), "On the  Quantum  Theory of Radiation",  The Old  Quantum  Theory , Elsevier, pp. 167–183,  doi : 10.1016/b978-0-08-012102-4.50018-8 ,  ISBN   9780080121024 
 
 ^   Wolfram, Stephen (2002).  A New Kind of Science . Wolfram Media, Inc. p.  1056 .  ISBN   978-1-57955-008-0 . 
 
 ^   Pais, Abraham (1997).  A Tale of Two Continents: A Physicist's Life in a Turbulent World . Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press.  ISBN   0-691-01243-1 . CS1 maint: ref=harv ( link ) 
 
 ^  a   b   c   See, for example,  the Feynman Lectures on  Physics  for some of the technological applications which use   quantum  mechanics, e.g.,  transistors  (vol  III , pp. 14–11 ff),  integrated circuits , which are follow-on technology in solid-state  physics  (vol  II , pp. 8–6), and  lasers  (vol  III , pp. 9–13). 
 
 ^   van Hove, Leon (1958).  "Von Neumann's contributions to  quantum  mechanics"   (PDF) .  Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society .  64  (3): Part 2:95–99.  doi : 10.1090/s0002-9904-1958-10206-2 . 
 
 ^  a   b   A New Kind of Science   Note (a) for  Quantum  phenomena 
 
 ^   Feynman, Richard .  "The Feynman Lectures on  Physics   III  21-4" .  California Institute of Technology . Retrieved  2015-11-24 .  "...it was long believed that the wave function of the Schrödinger equation would never have a macroscopic representation analogous to the macroscopic representation of the amplitude for photons. On the other hand, it is now realized that the phenomena of superconductivity presents us with just this situation. 
 
 ^   Richard Packard (2006) "Berkeley Experiments on Superfluid Macroscopic  Quantum  Effects"  Archived  November 25, 2015, at the  Wayback Machine   accessdate=2015-11-24 
 
 ^   " Quantum  – Definition and More from the Free Merriam-Webster Dictionary" . Merriam-webster.com . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   Thall, Edwin.  "Thall's History of  Quantum  Mechanics" .  Florida Community College at Jacksonville . Archived from  the original  on October 7, 2009 . Retrieved  May 23,  2009 . 
 
 ^   "ysfine.com" . Retrieved  11 September  2015 . 
 
 ^   " Quantum  Mechanics" .  geocities.com . 2009-10-26. Archived from  the original  on 2009-10-26 . Retrieved  2016-06-13 . 
 
 ^   P.A.M. Dirac,  The Principles of  Quantum  Mechanics , Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1930. 
 
 ^   D. Hilbert  Lectures on  Quantum  Theory , 1915–1927 
 
 ^   J. von Neumann,  Mathematische Grundlagen der Quantenmechanik , Springer, Berlin, 1932 (English translation:  Mathematical Foundations of  Quantum  Mechanics , Princeton University Press, 1955). 
 
 ^   H.Weyl "The Theory of Groups and  Quantum  Mechanics", 1931 (original title: "Gruppentheorie und Quantenmechanik"). 
 
 ^   Dirac, P.A.M.  (1958).  The Principles of  Quantum  Mechanics , 4th edition, Oxford University Press, Oxford, p. ix: "For this reason I have chosen the symbolic method, introducing the representatives later merely as an aid to practical calculation." 
 
 ^   Greiner, Walter; Müller, Berndt (1994).  Quantum  Mechanics Symmetries, Second edition . Springer-Verlag. p. 52.  ISBN   978-3-540-58080-5 . ,  Chapter 1, p. 52 
 
 ^   "Heisenberg –  Quantum  Mechanics, 1925–1927: The Uncertainty Relations" . Aip.org . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Greenstein, George; Zajonc, Arthur (2006).  The  Quantum  Challenge: Modern Research on the Foundations of  Quantum  Mechanics, Second edition . Jones and Bartlett Publishers, Inc. p. 215.  ISBN   978-0-7637-2470-2 . ,  Chapter 8, p. 215 
 
 ^   Lodha, Suresh K.; Faaland, Nikolai M.;  et al. (2002).  "Visualization of Uncertain Particle Movement (Proceeding Computer Graphics and Imaging)"   (PDF) . Actapress.com.  Archived   (PDF)  from the original on 2018-08-01 . Retrieved  2018-08-01 . 
 
 ^   Hirshleifer, Jack (2001).  The Dark Side of the Force: Economic Foundations of Conflict Theory . Cambridge University Press. p.  265 .  ISBN   978-0-521-80412-7 . ,  Chapter, p.  
 
 ^   "dict.cc dictionary :: eigen :: German-English translation" .  dict.cc . Retrieved  11 September  2015 . 
 
 ^   "Topics: Wave-Function Collapse" . Phy.olemiss.edu. 2012-07-27. Archived from  the original  on 2017-02-28 . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   "Collapse of the wave-function" . Farside.ph.utexas.edu . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   Weinberg, Steven (2010).  Dreams Of A Final Theory: The Search for The Fundamental Laws of Nature . Random House. p. 82.  ISBN   978-1-4070-6396-6 .   Extract of page 82 
 
 ^   Michael Trott.  "Time-Evolution of a Wavepacket in a Square Well – Wolfram Demonstrations Project" . Demonstrations.wolfram.com . Retrieved  2010-10-15 . 
 
 ^   Michael Trott.  "Time Evolution of a Wavepacket In a Square Well" . Demonstrations.wolfram.com . Retrieved  2010-10-15 . 
 
 ^   Mathews, Piravonu Mathews; Venkatesan, K. (1976).  A Textbook of  Quantum  Mechanics . Tata McGraw-Hill. p. 36.  ISBN   978-0-07-096510-2 . ,  Chapter 2, p. 36 
 
 ^   "Wave Functions and the Schrödinger Equation"   (PDF) . Retrieved  2010-10-15 . [ dead link ] 
 
 ^   Rechenberg, Helmut (1987).  "Erwin Schrödinger and the creation of wave mechanics"   (PDF) .  Acta Physica Polonica B .  19  (8): 683–695 . Retrieved  13 June  2016 . 
 
 ^   Nancy Thorndike Greenspan, "The End of the Certain World: The Life and Science of Max Born" (Basic Books, 2005), pp. 124–128, 285–826. 
 
 ^   "Archived copy"   (PDF) . Archived from  the original   (PDF)  on 2011-07-19 . Retrieved  2009-06-04 . CS1 maint: archived copy as title ( link ) 
 
 ^   "The Nobel Prize in  Physics  1979" . Nobel Foundation . Retrieved  2010-02-16 . 
 
 ^   Carl M. Bender; Daniel W. Hook; Karta Kooner (2009-12-31). "Complex Elliptic Pendulum".  arXiv : 1001.0131  [ hep-th ]. 
 
 ^   See, for example,  Precision tests of QED . The relativistic refinement of  quantum  mechanics known as  quantum  electrodynamics  (QED) has been shown to agree with experiment to within 1 part in 10 8  for some atomic properties. 
 
 ^   Tipler, Paul; Llewellyn, Ralph (2008).  Modern  Physics  (5 ed.). W.H. Freeman and Company. pp. 160–161.  ISBN   978-0-7167-7550-8 . 
 
 ^   Ehrenfest, P. (1927). "Bemerkung über die angenäherte Gültigkeit der klassischen Mechanik innerhalb der Quantenmechanik".  Zeitschrift für Physik .  45  (7–8): 455–457.  Bibcode : 1927ZPhy...45..455E .  doi : 10.1007/BF01329203 . 
 
 ^   Smith, Henrik (1991).  Introduction to  Quantum  Mechanics . World Scientific Pub Co Inc. pp. 108–109.  ISBN   978-9810204754 . 
 
 ^   Einstein, A.; Podolsky, B.; Rosen, N. (1935).  "Can  quantum -mechanical description of physical reality be considered complete?" .  Phys. Rev .  47  (10): 777.  Bibcode : 1935PhRv...47..777E .  doi : 10.1103/physrev.47.777 . 
 
 ^   N.P. Landsman (June 13, 2005).  "Between classical and  quantum "   (PDF) . Retrieved  2012-08-19 .   Handbook of the Philosophy of Science  Vol. 2: Philosophy of  Physics  (eds.
John Earman & Jeremy Butterfield). 
 
 ^   (see  macroscopic  quantum  phenomena ,  Bose–Einstein condensate , and  Quantum  machine ) 
 
 ^   "Atomic Properties" . Academic.brooklyn.cuny.edu . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   http://assets.cambridge.org/97805218/29526/excerpt/9780521829526_excerpt.pdf 
 
 ^   Born, M. ,  Heisenberg, W. ,  Jordan, P.  (1926).  Z. Phys.   35 : 557–615. Translated as 'On  quantum  mechanics  II ', pp. 321–385 in  Van der Waerden, B.L.  (1967),  Sources of  Quantum  Mechanics , North-Holland, Amsterdam, "The basic difference between the theory proposed here and that used hitherto ... lies in the characteristic kinematics ...", p. 385. 
 
 ^   Dirac, P.A.M.  (1930/1958).  The Principles of  Quantum  Mechanics , fourth edition, Oxford University Press, Oxford UK, p. 5: "A question about what will happen to a particular photon under certain conditions is not really very precise. To make it precise one must imagine some experiment performed having a bearing on the question, and enquire what will be the result of the experiment. Only questions about the results of experiments have a real significance and it is only such questions that theoretical  physics  has to consider." 
 
 ^   Bohr, N.  (1939). The Causality Problem in Atomic  Physics , in  New Theories in  Physics , Conference organized in collaboration with the International Union of  Physics  and the Polish Intellectual Co-operation Committee, Warsaw, May 30th – June 3rd 1938 , International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, Paris, 1939, pp. 11–30, reprinted in  Niels Bohr, Collected Works , volume 7 (1933–1958) edited by J. Kalckar, Elsevier, Amsterdam,  ISBN   0-444-89892-1 , pp. 303–322. "The essential lesson of the analysis of measurements in  quantum  theory is thus the emphasis on the necessity, in the account of the phenomena, of taking the whole experimental arrangement into consideration, in complete conformity with the fact that all unambiguous interpretation of the  quantum  mechanical formalism involves the fixation of the external conditions, defining the initial state of the atomic system and the character of the possible predictions as regards subsequent observable properties of that system. Any measurement in  quantum  theory can in fact only refer either to a fixation of the initial state or to the test of such predictions, and it is first the combination of both kinds which constitutes a well-defined phenomenon." 
 
 ^   Bohr, N.  (1948). On the notions of complementarity and causality,  Dialectica   2 : 312–319. "As a more appropriate way of expression, one may advocate limitation of the use of the word  phenomenon  to refer to observations obtained under specified circumstances, including an account of the whole experiment." 
 
 ^   Ludwig, G. (1987).  An Axiomatic Basis for  Quantum  Mechanics , volume 2,  Quantum  Mechanics and Macrosystems , translated by K. Just, Springer, Berlin,  ISBN   978-3-642-71899-1 , Chapter  XIII , Special Structures in Preparation and Registration Devices, §1, Measurement chains, p. 132. 
 
 ^  a   b   Heisenberg, W.  (1927). Über den anschaulichen Inhalt der quantentheoretischen Kinematik und Mechanik,  Z. Phys.   43 : 172–198. Translation as 'The actual content of  quantum  theoretical kinematics and mechanics' here  [1] , "But in the rigorous formulation of the law of causality, – "If we know the present precisely,  we can calculate the future" – it is not the conclusion that is faulty, but the premise." 
 
 ^   Green, H.S.  (1965).  Matrix Mechanics , with a foreword by  Max Born , P. Noordhoff Ltd, Groningen. "It is not possible, therefore, to provide 'initial conditions' for the prediction of the behaviour of atomic systems, in the way contemplated by classical  physics . This is accepted by  quantum  theory, not merely as an experimental difficulty, but as a fundamental law of nature", p. 32. 
 
 ^   Rosenfeld, L.  (1957). Misunderstandings about the foundations of  quantum  theory, pp. 41–45 in  Observation and Interpretation , edited by S. Körner, Butterworths, London. "A phenomenon is therefore a process (endowed with the characteristic quantal wholeness) involving a definite type of interaction between the system and the apparatus." 
 
 ^   Dirac, P.A.M.  (1973). Development of the physicist's conception of nature, pp. 1–55 in  The Physicist's Conception of Nature , edited by J. Mehra, D. Reidel, Dordrecht,  ISBN   90-277-0345-0 , p. 5: "That led Heisenberg to his really masterful step forward, resulting in the new  quantum  mechanics. His idea was to build up a theory entirely in terms of quantities referring to two states." 
 
 ^   Born, M.  (1927). Physical aspects of  quantum  mechanics,  Nature   119 : 354–357, "These probabilities are thus dynamically determined. But what the system actually does is not determined ..." 
 
 ^   Messiah, A.  (1961).  Quantum  Mechanics , volume 1, translated by G.M. Temmer from the French  Mécanique Quantique , North-Holland, Amsterdam, p. 157. 
 
 ^   Bohr, N.  (1928).  "The  Quantum  postulate and the recent development of atomic theory" .  Nature .  121  (3050): 580–590.  Bibcode : 1928Natur.121..580B .  doi : 10.1038/121580a0 . 
 
 ^   Heisenberg, W.  (1930).  The Physical Principles of the  Quantum  Theory , translated by C. Eckart and F.C. Hoyt, University of Chicago Press. 
 
 ^   Goldstein, H.  (1950).  Classical Mechanics , Addison-Wesley,  ISBN   0-201-02510-8 . 
 
 ^   "There is as yet no logically consistent and complete relativistic  quantum  field theory.", p. 4.   –  V.B. Berestetskii,  E.M. Lifshitz , L.P. Pitaevskii (1971). J.B. Sykes, J.S. Bell (translators).  Relativistic  Quantum  Theory   4, part I .  Course of Theoretical  Physics  (Landau and Lifshitz)   ISBN   0-08-016025-5 
 
 ^   "Stephen Hawking; Gödel and the end of  physics " .  cam.ac.uk . Archived from  the original  on 21 May 2011 . Retrieved  11 September  2015 . 
 
 ^   Hawking, Stephen; Penrose, Roger (2010).  The Nature of Space and Time .  ISBN   978-1400834747 . 
 
 ^   
 Tatsumi Aoyama; Masashi Hayakawa; Toichiro Kinoshita; Makiko Nio (2012). "Tenth-Order QED Contribution to the Electron g-2 and an Improved Value of the Fine Structure Constant".  Physical Review Letters .  109  (11): 111807.  arXiv : 1205.5368 .  Bibcode : 2012PhRvL.109k1807A .  doi : 10.1103/PhysRevLett.109.111807 .  PMID   23005618 . 
 
 ^   Parker, B. (1993).  Overcoming some of the problems . pp. 259–279. 
 
 ^   The Character of Physical Law (1965) Ch. 6; also quoted in The New  Quantum  Universe (2003), by Tony Hey and Patrick Walters 
 
 ^   Weinberg, Steven (2012). "Collapse of the state vector".  Physical Review A .  85  (6): 062116.  arXiv : 1109.6462 .  Bibcode : 2012PhRvA..85f2116W .  doi : 10.1103/PhysRevA.85.062116 . 
 
 ^   Harrison, Edward  (2000).  Cosmology: The Science of the Universe . Cambridge University Press. p. 239.  ISBN   978-0-521-66148-5 . 
 
 ^   "Action at a Distance in  Quantum  Mechanics (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)" . Plato.stanford.edu. 2007-01-26 . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   Wolfram, Stephen (2002).  A New Kind of Science . Wolfram Media, Inc. p.  1058 .  ISBN   978-1-57955-008-0 . 
 
 ^   "Everett's Relative-State Formulation of  Quantum  Mechanics (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)" . Plato.stanford.edu . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   Cramer, John G. (1986). "The transactional interpretation of  quantum  mechanics".  Reviews of Modern  Physics .  58  (3): 647–687.  Bibcode : 1986RvMP...58..647C .  doi : 10.1103/RevModPhys.58.647 . 
 
 ^   The Transactional Interpretation of  quantum  mechanics. R.E. Kastner. Cambridge University Press. 2013.  ISBN   978-0-521-76415-5 . p. 35. 
 
 ^   Pauling, Linus ;  Wilson, Edgar Bright  (1985).  Introduction to  Quantum  Mechanics with Applications to Chemistry .  ISBN   9780486648712 . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   Matson, John.  "What Is  Quantum  Mechanics Good for?" .  Scientific American . Retrieved  18 May  2016 . 
 
 ^   The Nobel laureates Watson and Crick cited  Pauling, Linus  (1939).  The Nature of the Chemical Bond and the Structure of Molecules and Crystals .  Cornell University Press .  for chemical bond lengths, angles, and orientations. 
 
 ^   Schneier, Bruce  (1993).  Applied Cryptography  (2nd ed.). Wiley. p. 554.  ISBN   978-0471117094 . 
 
 ^   "Applications of  Quantum  Computing" .  research.ibm.com . Retrieved  28 June  2017 . 
 
 ^   Chen, Xie; Gu, Zheng-Cheng;  Wen, Xiao-Gang  (2010). "Local unitary transformation, long-range  quantum  entanglement, wave function renormalization, and topological order".  Phys. Rev. B .  82  (15): 155138.  arXiv : 1004.3835 .  Bibcode : 2010PhRvB..82o5138C .  doi : 10.1103/physrevb.82.155138 . 
 
 ^   Anderson, Mark (2009-01-13).  "Is  Quantum  Mechanics Controlling Your Thoughts? | Subatomic Particles" . Discover Magazine . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   " Quantum  mechanics boosts photosynthesis" . physicsworld.com . Retrieved  2010-10-23 . 
 
 ^   Davies, P.C.W.; Betts, David S. (1984).  Quantum  Mechanics, Second edition . Chapman and Hall.  ISBN   978-0-7487-4446-6 . , [ https://books.google.com/books?id=XRyHCrGNstoC&pg=PA79  Chapter 6, p. 79 
 
 ^   Baofu, Peter (2007).  The Future of Complexity: Conceiving a Better Way to Understand Order and Chaos .  Bibcode : 2007fccb.book.....B .  ISBN   9789812708991 . Retrieved  2012-08-18 . 
 
 ^   Derivation of particle in a box,  chemistry.tidalswan.com 
 
 
 
 
 ^   N.B. on  precision : If  
 
 
 
 δ  δ  
 x 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \delta x} 
 
  and  
 
 
 
 δ  δ  
 p 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \delta p} 
 
  are the precisions of position and momentum obtained in an  individual  measurement and  
 
 
 
 
 σ  σ  
 
 x 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \sigma _{x}} 
 
 ,  
 
 
 
 
 σ  σ  
 
 p 
 
 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \sigma _{p}} 
 
  their standard deviations in an  ensemble  of individual measurements on similarly prepared systems, then " There are, in principle, no restrictions on the precisions of individual measurements  
 
 
 
 δ  δ  
 x 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \delta x} 
 
  and  
 
 
 
 δ  δ  
 p 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \delta p} 
 
 , but the standard deviations will always satisfy  
 
 
 
 
 σ  σ  
 
 x 
 
 
 
 σ  σ  
 
 p 
 
 
 ≥  ≥  
 ℏ  ℏ  
 
 / 
 
 2 
 
 
 {\displaystyle \sigma _{x}\sigma _{p}\geq \hbar /2} 
 
 ". [4] 
 
 
 References [ edit ] 
 
 The following titles, all by working physicists, attempt to communicate  quantum  theory to lay people, using a minimum of technical apparatus.
 
 Chester, Marvin (1987)  Primer of  Quantum  Mechanics . John Wiley.  ISBN   0-486-42878-8 
 Cox, Brian ;  Forshaw, Jeff  (2011).  The  Quantum  Universe: Everything That Can Happen Does Happen . Allen Lane.  ISBN   978-1-84614-432-5 . 
 Richard Feynman , 1985.  QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter , Princeton University Press.  ISBN   0-691-08388-6 . Four elementary lectures on  quantum  electrodynamics  and  quantum  field theory , yet containing many insights for the expert. 
 Ghirardi, GianCarlo , 2004.  Sneaking a Look at God's Cards , Gerald Malsbary, trans. Princeton Univ. Press. The most technical of the works cited here. Passages using  algebra ,  trigonometry , and  bra–ket notation  can be passed over on a first reading. 
 N. David Mermin , 1990, "Spooky actions at a distance: mysteries of the QT" in his  Boojums all the way through . Cambridge University Press: 110–76. 
 Victor Stenger , 2000.  Timeless Reality: Symmetry, Simplicity, and Multiple Universes . Buffalo NY: Prometheus Books. Chpts. 5–8.  Includes  cosmological  and  philosophical  considerations. 
 More technical:
 
 Bryce DeWitt , R. Neill Graham, eds., 1973.  The Many-Worlds Interpretation of  Quantum  Mechanics , Princeton Series in  Physics , Princeton University Press.  ISBN   0-691-08131-X 
 Dirac, P.A.M.  (1930).  The Principles of  Quantum  Mechanics .  ISBN   978-0-19-852011-5 .  The beginning chapters make up a very clear and comprehensible introduction. 
 Everett, Hugh  (1957).  "Relative State Formulation of  Quantum  Mechanics" .  Reviews of Modern  Physics .  29  (3): 454–462. 
 Feynman, Richard P. ;  Leighton, Robert B. ; Sands, Matthew (1965).  The Feynman Lectures on  Physics .  1–3 . Addison-Wesley.  ISBN   978-0-7382-0008-8 . 
 Griffiths, David J. (2004).  Introduction to  Quantum  Mechanics (2nd ed.) . Prentice Hall.  ISBN   978-0-13-111892-8 .  OCLC   40251748 .  A standard undergraduate text. 
 Max Jammer , 1966.  The Conceptual Development of  Quantum  Mechanics . McGraw Hill. 
 Hagen Kleinert , 2004.  Path Integrals in  Quantum  Mechanics, Statistics, Polymer  Physics , and Financial Markets , 3rd ed. Singapore: World Scientific.  Draft of 4th edition. 
 L.D. Landau ,  E.M. Lifshitz  (1977).  Quantum  Mechanics: Non-Relativistic Theory . Vol. 3 (3rd ed.).  Pergamon Press .  ISBN   978-0-08-020940-1 .   Online copy 
 Gunther Ludwig, 1968.  Wave Mechanics . London: Pergamon Press.  ISBN   0-08-203204-1 
 George Mackey  (2004).  The mathematical foundations of  quantum  mechanics . Dover Publications.  ISBN   0-486-43517-2 . 
 Albert Messiah , 1966.  Quantum  Mechanics  (Vol. I), English translation from French by G.M. Temmer. North Holland, John Wiley & Sons. Cf. chpt. IV, section III.  online 
 Omnès, Roland  (1999).  Understanding  Quantum  Mechanics . Princeton University Press.  ISBN   978-0-691-00435-8 .  OCLC   39849482 . 
 Scerri, Eric R., 2006.  The  Periodic Table : Its Story and Its Significance . Oxford University Press. Considers the extent to which chemistry and the periodic system have been reduced to  quantum  mechanics.  ISBN   0-19-530573-6 
 Transnational College of Lex  (1996).  What is  Quantum  Mechanics? A  Physics  Adventure . Language Research Foundation, Boston.  ISBN   978-0-9643504-1-0 .  OCLC   34661512 . 
 von Neumann, John  (1955).  Mathematical Foundations of  Quantum  Mechanics . Princeton University Press.  ISBN   978-0-691-02893-4 . 
 Hermann Weyl , 1950.  The Theory of Groups and  Quantum  Mechanics , Dover Publications. 
 D. Greenberger, K. Hentschel, F. Weinert, eds., 2009.  Compendium of  quantum   physics , Concepts, experiments, history and philosophy , Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg. 
 
 Further reading [ edit ] 
 Bernstein, Jeremy (2009).  Quantum  Leaps . Cambridge, Massachusetts: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.  ISBN   978-0-674-03541-6 . 
 Bohm, David  (1989).  Quantum  Theory . Dover Publications.  ISBN   978-0-486-65969-5 . 
 Eisberg, Robert;  Resnick, Robert  (1985).  Quantum   Physics  of Atoms, Molecules, Solids, Nuclei, and Particles (2nd ed.) . Wiley.  ISBN   978-0-471-87373-0 . 
 Liboff, Richard L.  (2002).  Introductory  Quantum  Mechanics . Addison-Wesley.  ISBN   978-0-8053-8714-8 . 
 Merzbacher, Eugen (1998).  Quantum  Mechanics . Wiley, John & Sons, Inc.  ISBN   978-0-471-88702-7 . 
 Sakurai, J.J.  (1994).  Modern  Quantum  Mechanics . Addison Wesley.  ISBN   978-0-201-53929-5 . 
 Shankar, R. (1994).  Principles of  Quantum  Mechanics . Springer.  ISBN   978-0-306-44790-7 . 
 Stone, A. Douglas (2013).  Einstein and the  Quantum . Princeton University Press.  ISBN   978-0-691-13968-5 . 
 Veltman, Martinus J.G.  (2003),   Facts and Mysteries in Elementary Particle  Physics . 
 Zucav, Gary (1979, 2001).  The Dancing Wu Li Masters : An overview of the new  physics  (Perennial Classics Edition) HarperCollins. 
 On Wikibooks 
 
 This  Quantum  World 
 External links [ edit ] 
 Quantum  mechanics at Wikipedia's  sister projects Definitions  from Wiktionary 
 Media  from Wikimedia Commons 
 News  from Wikinews 
 Quotations  from Wikiquote 
 Texts  from Wikisource 
 Textbooks  from Wikibooks 
 Resources  from Wikiversity 
 
 
 3D animations, applications and research for basic  quantum  effects  (animations also available in  commons.wikimedia.org  (Université paris Sud)) 
 Quantum  Cook Book  by R. Shankar, Open Yale PHYS 201 material (4pp) 
 The Modern Revolution in  Physics  – an online textbook. 
 J. O'Connor and E.F. Robertson:  A history of  quantum  mechanics. 
 Introduction to  Quantum  Theory at Quantiki. 
 Quantum   Physics  Made Relatively Simple : three video lectures by  Hans Bethe 
 H is for h-bar. 
 Quantum  Mechanics Books Collection : Collection of free books 
 Course material 
 A collection of lectures on  Quantum  Mechanics 
 Quantum   Physics  Database – Fundamentals and Historical Background of  Quantum  Theory. 
 Doron Cohen: Lecture notes in  Quantum  Mechanics (comprehensive, with advanced topics). 
 MIT OpenCourseWare :  Chemistry . 
 MIT OpenCourseWare:  Physics . See  8.04 
 Stanford Continuing Education PHY 25:  Quantum  Mechanics  by  Leonard Susskind , see  course description [ permanent dead link ]  Fall 2007 
 5½ Examples in  Quantum  Mechanics 
 Imperial College  Quantum  Mechanics Course. 
 Spark Notes –  Quantum   Physics . 
 Quantum   Physics  Online : interactive introduction to  quantum  mechanics (RS applets). 
 Experiments to the foundations of  quantum   physics  with single photons. 
 AQME  : Advancing  Quantum  Mechanics for Engineers – by T. Barzso, D. Vasileska and G. Klimeck online learning resource with simulation tools on  nanohub 
 Quantum  Mechanics  by  Martin Plenio 
 Quantum  Mechanics  by Richard Fitzpatrick 
 Online course on  Quantum  Transport 
 FAQs 
 Many-worlds or relative-state interpretation. 
 Measurement in  Quantum  mechanics. 
 Media 
 PHYS 201: Fundamentals of  Physics  II  by Ramamurti Shankar, Open Yale Course 
 Lectures on  Quantum  Mechanics  by  Leonard Susskind 
 Everything you wanted to know about the  quantum  world  – archive of articles from  New Scientist . 
 Quantum   Physics  Research  from  Science Daily 
 Overbye, Dennis (December 27, 2005).  " Quantum  Trickery: Testing Einstein's Strangest Theory" .  The New York Times . Retrieved  April 12,  2010 . 
 Audio: Astronomy Cast   Quantum  Mechanics – June 2009.  Fraser Cain  interviews  Pamela L. Gay . 
 "The  Physics  of Reality" , BBC Radio 4 discussion with Roger Penrose, Fay Dowker & Tony Sudbery ( In Our Time , May 2, 2002). 
 Philosophy 
 Ismael, Jenann.  " Quantum  Mechanics" .  In  Zalta, Edward N.  (ed.).  Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy . 
 Krips, Henry.  "Measurement in  Quantum  Theory" .  In  Zalta, Edward N.  (ed.).  Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy . 
 v t e Quantum  mechanics Background 
 Introduction 
 History 
 timeline 
 Glossary 
 Classical mechanics 
 Old  quantum  theory 
 Fundamentals 
 Bra–ket notation 
 Casimir effect 
 Coherence 
 Complementarity 
 Density matrix 
 Energy level 
 degenerate levels 
 excited state 
 ground state 
 QED vacuum 
 QCD vacuum 
 Vacuum state 
 Zero-point energy 
 Hamiltonian 
 Heisenberg uncertainty principle 
 Measurement 
 Observable 
 Operator 
 Probability distribution 
 Quantum 
 Qubit 
 Qutrit 
 Scattering theory 
 Spin 
 Spontaneous parametric down-conversion 
 Symmetry 
 Symmetry breaking 
 Spontaneous symmetry breaking 
 Von Neumann entropy 
 Wave interference 
 Wave function 
 collapse 
 Wave–particle duality 
 Matter wave 
 Wave propagation 
 Quantum 
 annealing 
 decoherence 
 entanglement 
 fluctuation 
 foam 
 levitation 
 noise 
 nonlocality 
 number 
 realm 
 state 
 superposition 
 system 
 tunnelling 
 Mathematics Equations 
 Dirac 
 Klein–Gordon 
 Pauli 
 Rydberg 
 Schrödinger 
 Formulations 
 Heisenberg 
 Interaction 
 Matrix mechanics 
 Path integral formulation 
 Phase space 
 Schrödinger 
 Other 
 Quantum 
 algebra 
 calculus 
 differential 
 stochastic 
 geometry 
 group 
 Q-analog 
 List 
 Interpretations 
 Bayesian 
 Consistent histories 
 Cosmological 
 Copenhagen 
 de Broglie–Bohm 
 Ensemble 
 Hidden variables 
 Many worlds 
 Objective collapse 
 Quantum  logic 
 Relational 
 Stochastic 
 Transactional 
 Experiments 
 Afshar 
 Bell's inequality 
 Cold Atom Laboratory 
 Davisson–Germer 
 Delayed-choice  quantum  eraser 
 Double-slit 
 Elitzur–Vaidman 
 Franck–Hertz experiment 
 Leggett–Garg inequality 
 Mach-Zehnder inter. 
 Popper 
 Quantum  eraser 
 Quantum  suicide and immortality 
 Schrödinger's cat 
 Stern–Gerlach 
 Wheeler's delayed choice 
 Science 
 Measurement problem 
 QBism 
 Quantum 
 biology 
 chemistry 
 chaos 
 cognition 
 complexity theory 
 computing 
 Timeline 
 cosmology 
 dynamics 
 economics 
 finance 
 foundations 
 game theory 
 information 
 nanoscience 
 metrology 
 mind 
 optics 
 probability 
 social science 
 spacetime 
 Technologies 
 Quantum  technology 
 links 
 Matrix isolation 
 Phase qubit 
 Quantum  dot 
 cellular automaton 
 display 
 laser 
 single-photon source 
 solar cell 
 Quantum  well 
 laser 
 Extensions 
 Quantum  electrodynamics 
 links 
 Quantum  field theory 
 links 
 Quantum  gravity 
 links 
 Quantum  information science 
 links 
 Quantum  statistical mechanics 
 Relativistic  quantum  mechanics 
 Related 
 Quantum  mechanics of time travel 
 Textbooks 
 
   Category 
   Physics  Portal 
   Physics  WikiProject 
   Commons 
 
 v t e Branches of  physics Divisions 
 Theoretical 
 Computational 
 Experimental 
 Applied 
 Classical 
 Classical mechanics 
 Acoustics 
 Classical electromagnetism 
 Optics 
 Thermodynamics 
 Statistical mechanics 
 Modern 
 Quantum  mechanics 
 Special relativity 
 General relativity 
 Particle  physics 
 Nuclear  physics 
 Quantum  chromodynamics 
 Atomic, molecular, and optical  physics 
 Condensed matter  physics 
 Cosmology 
 Astrophysics 
 Interdisciplinary 
 Atmospheric  physics 
 Biophysics 
 Chemical  physics 
 Engineering  physics 
 Geophysics 
 Materials science 
 Mathematical  physics 
 See also 
 History of  physics 
 Nobel Prize in  Physics 
 Timeline of  physics  discoveries 
 Theory of everything 
 
 Astronomy portal Chemistry portal Electronics portal Energy portal History of science portal Mathematics portal Physics  portal Science portal Stars portal 
 Authority control   
 BNF :  cb11938463d   (data) 
 GND :  4047989-4 
 LCCN :  sh85109469 
 NDL :  00569870 
 NKC :  ph115047 
 SUDOC :  02731569X 
 
  
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1262
Cached time: 20200730094035
Cache expiry: 21600
Dynamic content: true
Complications: [vary‐revision‐sha1]
CPU time usage: 1.548 seconds
Real time usage: 2.041 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 9406/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 303455/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 10295/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 17/40
Expensive parser function count: 22/500
Unstrip recursion depth: 1/20
Unstrip post‐expand size: 376213/5000000 bytes
Lua time usage: 0.666/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 7.92 MB/50 MB
Number of Wikibase entities loaded: 1/400
 
 
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00% 1401.878      1 -total
 44.12%  618.500      2 Template:Reflist
 13.15%  184.279     39 Template:Cite_book
 12.36%  173.315     14 Template:Cite_journal
 10.53%  147.636     11 Template:Isbn
  8.09%  113.472      1 Template:Better_source
  6.43%   90.149     24 Template:Cite_web
  4.64%   65.110      1 Template:Pp-pc1
  4.29%   60.148     12 Template:Catalog_lookup_link
  3.55%   49.783      1 Template:Authority_control
 
  Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:stable-pcache:idhash:25202-0!canonical!math=5 and timestamp 20200730094035 and revision id 970272351
  
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title= Quantum _mechanics&oldid=970272351 " 
 Categories :  Quantum  mechanics Concepts in  physics Hidden categories:  CS1 maint: ref=harv Webarchive template wayback links All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from August 2016 CS1 maint: archived copy as title Wikipedia pending changes protected pages Articles with short description Articles with separate introductions All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from June 2016 CS1: long volume value Articles with dead external links from July 2016 Articles with permanently dead external links Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Personal tools 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in 
 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Namespaces 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Article Talk 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 
 Variants 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Views 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Read Edit View history 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 
 More 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Navigation 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Wikipedia store 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Contribute 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Help Community portal Recent changes Upload file 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Tools 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Print/export 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Download as PDF Printable version 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 In other projects 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Wikimedia Commons Wikibooks Wikiquote Wikiversity 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Languages 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Afrikaans Alemannisch العربية Aragonés Արեւմտահայերէն অসমীয়া Asturianu Azərbaycanca বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ भोजपुरी Български Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Буряад Català Чӑвашла Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara فارسی Fiji Hindi Français Gaeilge Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Íslenska Italiano עברית Kabɩyɛ ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Қазақша Kiswahili Kriyòl gwiyannen Kurdî Кыргызча Latina Latviešu Lietuvių Limburgs Lumbaart Magyar Македонски മലയാളം Malti मराठी مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی Patois Piemontèis Polski Português Română Русиньскый Русский Scots Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Ślůnski کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt Võro 文言 Winaray 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 Žemaitėška 中文 
 Edit links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  This page was last edited on 30 July 2020, at 09:40  (UTC) . 
 Text is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the  Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. 
 
 
 Privacy policy 
 About Wikipedia 
 Disclaimers 
 Contact Wikipedia 
 Developers 
 Statistics 
 Cookie statement 
 Mobile view 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 