soft question - What is a correct and simple definition of quantum physics? - Physics Stack Exchange 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stack Exchange Network 
 
                            Stack Exchange network consists of 177 Q&A communities including  Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers.
                         
 Visit Stack Exchange 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Loading… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 0 
 
 
 
 
 
 +0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                Tour
                                 
                                    Start here for a quick overview of the site
                                 
 
 
 
 
                            Help Center
                             
                                Detailed answers to any questions you might have
                             
 
 
 
 
                                        Meta
                                         
                                            Discuss the workings and policies of this site
                                         
 
 
 
 
                                    About Us
                                     
                                        Learn more about Stack Overflow the company
                                     
 
 
 
 
                                    Business
                                     
                                        Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us
                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Log in 
 Sign up 
 
 
 
 
 
 current community 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Physics
         
 
 
 
 help 
 chat 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Physics Meta
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
your communities             
 
 
 
 Sign up  or  log in  to customize your list.                 
 
 
 more stack exchange communities 
 
 company blog 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our  Cookie Policy ,  Privacy Policy , and our  Terms of Service .
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Physics Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for active researchers, academics and students of physics. It only takes a minute to sign up. 
 Sign up to join this community 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    Anybody can ask a question
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    Anybody can answer
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    The best answers are voted up and rise to the top
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Home             
 
 
 
 
 
Questions             
 
 
 
Tags             
 
 
 
Users             
 
 
 
Unanswered             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What is a correct and simple definition of quantum physics? 
 
 
        Ask Question
     
 
 
 
 
 Asked 
 8 years, 9 months ago 
 
 
 Active 
 3 years, 11 months ago 
 
 
 Viewed 
                        13k times
                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\begingroup$ 
 
 Is it correct to define  Quantum Physics  as the study of Physics in sub-atomic scale? Does Quantum Physics studies something else other than sub-atomic phenomena? 
 
 
 
 quantum-mechanics   soft-question   terminology 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 share 
 | 
 cite 
 | 
 improve this question 
 | 
 
        follow
     
 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 edited  Aug 3 '16 at 16:04 
 
 
 
 
 
 Qmechanic ♦ 
 
 131k 18 18 gold badges 287 287 silver badges 1579 1579 bronze badges 
 
 
   
 
 
 
        asked  Oct 23 '11 at 17:17 
 
 
 
 
 
 Victor Victor 
 
 171 1 1 gold badge 1 1 silver badge 4 4 bronze badges 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\endgroup$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\begingroup$ 
 If you like this question you may also enjoy reading  physics.stackexchange.com/q/6738/2451 
 $\endgroup$ 
–  Qmechanic ♦ 
 Oct 23 '11 at 17:43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 add a comment 
  |  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                        5 Answers
                                     5 
 
 
 
 
 
            Active 
 
            Oldest 
 
            Votes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\begingroup$ 
 
 Quantum physics is a probability theory where probability amplitudes appear. Any phenomenon where probability amplitudes appear is a quantum phenomenon, whether it is microscopic or macroscopic. The probability amplitudes unify the particle and wave classical limits into one object, and they probably apply to all objects, microscopic and macroscopic. 
 
 
 
 
 
 share 
 | 
 cite 
 | 
 improve this answer 
 | 
 
        follow
     
 | 
 
 
 
 
 
        answered  Oct 23 '11 at 17:40 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ron Maimon Ron Maimon 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\endgroup$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 add a comment 
  |  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\begingroup$ 
 
 The unique way the human kind has got to determine if an effect needs quantum mechanics to be described consists in calculating the action (cf. wikipedia) and comparing it with Planck's constant. If it is much bigger, there is no need of quantum mechanics; if it is on the same order, you will need QM to describe that effect. 
 The action being much bigger than Planck's constant does not mean that QM cannot be used. Bohr used to think that the macroscopic and microscopic worlds were fundamentally different, but such examples as quantum levitation (which is macroscopic - see Wikipedia) suggest that describing fundamentally was a synonym of describing with QM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 share 
 | 
 cite 
 | 
 improve this answer 
 | 
 
        follow
     
 | 
 
 
 
 
 
        answered  Oct 23 '11 at 18:45 
 
 
 
 
 
 Isaac Isaac 
 
 2,392 3 3 gold badges 22 22 silver badges 34 34 bronze badges 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\endgroup$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 add a comment 
  |  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\begingroup$ 
 
 Is it correct to define Quantum Physics as the study of Physics in sub-atomic scale?  No. 
 Does Quantum Physics studies something else other than sub-atomic phenomena?  Yes. 
 Take  artificial atoms  or  superconducting flux qubits  as examples. 
 What is a correct and simple definition of quantum physics? A correct and simple definition: "quantum physics" is a collection of models of physical phenomena which use the mathematics of "Hilbert space" to make operational predictions for the outcomes of laboratory experiments.  Which physical phenomena?  Well, whatever ones we can make good predictions for. 
 
 
 
 
 
 share 
 | 
 cite 
 | 
 improve this answer 
 | 
 
        follow
     
 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 edited  Oct 23 '11 at 23:58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
        answered  Oct 23 '11 at 23:44 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chris Ferrie Chris Ferrie 
 
 2,658 1 1 gold badge 11 11 silver badges 18 18 bronze badges 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\endgroup$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\begingroup$ 
 Interesting when you said "No" to the first question, because that definition "Quantum Physics as the study of Physics in sub-atomic scale" is what is written in the Portuguese (I am from Brazil) article of Quantum Physics on Wikipedia. So the Portuguese portion of Wikipedia is wrong about Quantum Physics. 
 $\endgroup$ 
–  Victor 
 Oct 24 '11 at 0:38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 add a comment 
  |  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\begingroup$ 
 
 Short answer:  It is the physics of small scales or high energies. 
 Long answer:  Don't listen to Short-answer Jim, he doesn't know what he's talking about. (He's also a few rings short of Saturn, if you know what I mean) 
 The simplest way I can think of correctly defining quantum physics is that it is the combination of our best and most correct theories of physics that does not include General Relativity. 
 There are two relevant and important classes of physics for this explanation:  classical physics  and  quantum physics . 
 Physicists are people too. If we can achieve our goals equally well through two different methods, we are going to pick the method that is easier for us to use. That being said, it should come as no surprise that the theories we choose to use for any given task are generally the simplest theories that effectively suit the needs of that task. 
 Quantum physics is generally accepted as the more correct version of physics compared to classical physics. That is, classical physics is mostly wrong. However, classical physics is usually correct enough that, for most everyday applications, you wouldn't notice the difference between the quantum and classical results. Technically speaking, it is  possible  for you to do absolutely everything using only quantum physics (except anything involving GR) and you would get much more accurate results; however, quantum physics is so much more complex than classical that it becomes extremely impractical to use. If classical physics gives you an answer that is correct enough, it makes sense to use it. We use quantum physics only when classical physics will not give us a good enough result. This tends to be true more often when dealing with extremely small scales or with extremely high energies. That is why many people often tell you that quantum physics is the physics of small scales or high energies. They are wrong. Quantum physics covers everything except GR and it is simply our most correct theories of physics to date. 
 That said, we know quantum physics is incomplete. We know it is not totally correct. That is why you will also hear some physicists say that physics breaks down on even smaller scales or at even higher energies. They don't mean that literally. There is no scale or energy level where physics actually does not apply. What they mean is that the theories we have, like classical physics on the quantum scale, are not correct enough to use. We don't know yet the theories that are correct enough to use outside the quantum limits. But even though we can't say what the physics is, we know the physics still works on those scales. 
 That is the simplest way I can define quantum physics. 
 
 
 
 
 
 share 
 | 
 cite 
 | 
 improve this answer 
 | 
 
        follow
     
 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 edited  Aug 3 '16 at 13:02 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
        answered  Jul 11 '16 at 12:21 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jim Jim 
 
 23k 3 3 gold badges 61 61 silver badges 110 110 bronze badges 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\endgroup$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 add a comment 
  |  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\begingroup$ 
 
 Here's how I've tried to give a sense of quantum physics.
It doesn't take you very far in understanding all the implications, but it's a start. 
 First, let's understand the word "amplitude".
Think of an incandescent light bulb, like an automobile light bulb.
When you put positive twelve volts across it, like from the car battery, it glows with its full wattage, say 60 watts.
If instead, you put an older-style 6 volt car battery across it, it only glows with 1/4 of its full wattage, 15 watts.
Now each battery can be reversed, putting negative voltage across the light bulb, and you get the same result. 
 So think of  amplitude  as the voltage, which goes as the square root of the power. The amplitude can have a sign, positive or negative, but the power is always positive and always varies as the square of the amplitude. 
 
 Think of a coin. You flip it into the air, and you don't yet know if it will land "Heads".
You know the probability of Heads is 0.5, assuming it's a fair coin. 
 Now, in the quantum world we think of that probability, 0.5, like the power of the light bulb.
What's actually underneath is an  amplitude  of 0.707, which when squared gives you 0.5. 
 That amplitude could be positive, or it could be negative.
(It could actually be something in-between, if it's a complex number, but you can read up about that.) 
 
 Now, the coin's in the air, so you don't know how it's going to come out, yet,
but you do know with certainty (P = 1) it will be either heads or tails, nothing else.
The way you know that is by adding up the probabilities of the different outcomes.
0.5 + 0.5 = 1. 
 But in the quantum world, you don't add probabilities.
You add amplitudes.
Since the amplitudes have signs, they might cancel each other out, or they might reinforce.
So with a quantum coin, the probability that you'll get  something  is the square of the sum of the amplitude for Heads, plus the amplitude for Tails.
That sum could be -1.414, +1.414, 0 (or anywhere in between if amplitudes are complex).
Therefore the probability of even  seeing the coin land  is somewhere between 0 and 2. 
 
 OK, now you're confused (and so am I).
How could you flip a coin and see it land twice or not at all, let alone somewhere in between? 
 To answer this, we gotta go to the  double-slit experiment .
Instead of flipping a coin we are shooting little electron or photon bullets through two parallel slits, the Heads slit and the Tails slit, and they hit a screen on the other side.
If they worked like normal bullets, you would expect to see them pile up under each slit. 
 However, they are quantum bullets so they don't do that.
Instead, they pile up in places where they shouldn't land at all (in the center), and they completely avoid other places, for no apparent reason. 
 So here's how some smart guys explained it.
They don't say the bullet has a probability of going through one slit or the other,
they say is has an amplitude of going through one slit or the other.
Those amplitudes are numbers, but not only that, they're always changing.
They are waves, in fact.
Then when those amplitude waves come together, they interfere, just like water waves. 
 Where they cancel out, you get zero probability (no bullets).
Where they reinforce, you get excess probability, so excess bullets,
because the bullets that don't end up in the sparse places end up in the dense places. 
 
 So just to top off the confusion, you could say that when you flip that coin, the  universe bifurcates , but unlike in "Back to the Future", those separate universes don't stay separate, they rejoin in the same way that water waves interfere,
and this is going on  everywhere, all the time . 
 
 
 
 
 
 share 
 | 
 cite 
 | 
 improve this answer 
 | 
 
        follow
     
 | 
 
 
 
 
 
 edited  Oct 24 '11 at 2:32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
        answered  Oct 24 '11 at 2:13 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mike Dunlavey Mike Dunlavey 
 
 15.3k 1 1 gold badge 34 34 silver badges 57 57 bronze badges 
 
 
 
 
 
 $\endgroup$ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 add a comment 
  |  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Highly active question . Earn 10 reputation in order to answer this question. The reputation requirement helps protect this question from spam and non-answer activity.
                        
                     
 
 
 
 
 
Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged  quantum-mechanics   soft-question   terminology   or  ask your own question .                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
                        Featured on Meta
                     
 
 
   
 
 Improved experience for users with review suspensions 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 CEO Blog: Some exciting news about fundraising 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            10 votes ·
             
                comment
              ·
             
                stats
             
 
 
 
 Linked 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 Simple explanation of quantum mechanics 
 
 
 
 
 Related 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Hot Network Questions
         
 
 
 
 
                    Intersection modulo 2 theory for infinite dimensional manifolds?
                 
 
 
 
                    What is the LEGO code for this part used as a camcorder?
                 
 
 
 
                    Is it common to ask professors for an editable copy of their lecture notes (so I can improve them)?
                 
 
 
 
                    Identify this black dragonfly with a bright bluish-white band around its body
                 
 
 
 
                    Why don't we prove that functions used in physics are continuous and differentiable?
                 
 
 
 
                    Has there been any "invasive plants warfare" in the past?
                 
 
 
 
                    What is the theory behind a gravel bike?
                 
 
 
 
                    When the sun "enters" a constellation, doesn't it make it impossible to see that constellation?
                 
 
 
 
                    I need an alternative to leather
                 
 
 
 
                    Why is Mathematica taking so long to solve this equation?
                 
 
 
 
                    Why Jh in Middle English?
                 
 
 
 
                    What will happen if I receive major part of my protein needs from powders rather than foods?
                 
 
 
 
                    Why did they use uprighting bags in different sizes for the Apollo CM?
                 
 
 
 
                    Repairing bushes and small trees?
                 
 
 
 
                    How to fix a grub boot error : "symbol 'grub_calloc' not found
                 
 
 
 
                    What's wrong with this sentence 我终于快到中国了
                 
 
 
 
                    The shortest way to find one unique value when all other values are the same
                 
 
 
 
                    What's the effect of shorting the wiper terminal with one of the ends of a trim pot?
                 
 
 
 
                    Limit access to screens (phone, computer) to my kids, whereas I benefitted from "no limit" during my own childhood
                 
 
 
 
                    How to connect data points (for each subject) on a plot in R?
                 
 
 
 
                    Does the verse in Song of Solomon 5:16 contain the name of the Islamic prophet Muhammad?
                 
 
 
 
                    How is this note playing (Scriabin Op. 42 No. 5)
                 
 
 
 
                    Does "nor he mine" make sense here?
                 
 
 
 
                    Paying "rent" to romantic partner that owns the house
                 
 
 
 
            more hot questions
         
 
 
 
 
            Question feed
         
 
 
 
 
                Subscribe to RSS
             
 
 
 
                        Question feed
                         To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 Physics 
 
 Tour 
 Help 
 Chat 
 Contact 
 Feedback 
 Mobile 
 
 
 
 Company 
 
 Stack Overflow 
 For Teams 
 Advertise With Us 
 Hire a Developer 
 Developer Jobs 
 About 
 Press 
 Legal 
 Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stack Exchange  Network 
 
 Technology 
 Life / Arts 
 Culture / Recreation 
 Science 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stack Overflow 
 Server Fault 
 Super User 
 Web Applications 
 Ask Ubuntu 
 Webmasters 
 Game Development 
 
 TeX - LaTeX 
 Software Engineering 
 Unix & Linux 
 Ask Different (Apple) 
 WordPress Development 
 Geographic Information Systems 
 Electrical Engineering 
 
 Android Enthusiasts 
 Information Security 
 Database Administrators 
 Drupal Answers 
 SharePoint 
 User Experience 
 Mathematica 
 
 Salesforce 
 ExpressionEngine® Answers 
 Stack Overflow em Português 
 Blender 
 Network Engineering 
 Cryptography 
 Code Review 
 
 Magento 
 Software Recommendations 
 Signal Processing 
 Emacs 
 Raspberry Pi 
 Stack Overflow на русском 
 Code Golf 
 
 Stack Overflow en español 
 Ethereum 
 Data Science 
 Arduino 
 Bitcoin 
 Software Quality Assurance & Testing 
 Sound Design 
 
 Windows Phone 
 
 
 
                            more (28)
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Photography 
 Science Fiction & Fantasy 
 Graphic Design 
 Movies & TV 
 Music: Practice & Theory 
 Worldbuilding 
 Video Production 
 
 Seasoned Advice (cooking) 
 Home Improvement 
 Personal Finance & Money 
 Academia 
 Law 
 Physical Fitness 
 Gardening & Landscaping 
 
 Parenting 
 
 
 
                            more (10)
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 English Language & Usage 
 Skeptics 
 Mi Yodeya (Judaism) 
 Travel 
 Christianity 
 English Language Learners 
 Japanese Language 
 
 Chinese Language 
 French Language 
 German Language 
 Biblical Hermeneutics 
 History 
 Spanish Language 
 Islam 
 
 Русский язык 
 Russian Language 
 Arqade (gaming) 
 Bicycles 
 Role-playing Games 
 Anime & Manga 
 Puzzling 
 
 Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair 
 Board & Card Games 
 Bricks 
 Homebrewing 
 Martial Arts 
 The Great Outdoors 
 Poker 
 
 Chess 
 Sports 
 
 
 
                            more (16)
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MathOverflow 
 Mathematics 
 Cross Validated (stats) 
 Theoretical Computer Science 
 Physics 
 Chemistry 
 Biology 
 
 Computer Science 
 Philosophy 
 Linguistics 
 Psychology & Neuroscience 
 Computational Science 
 
 
 
                            more (10)
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Meta Stack Exchange 
 Stack Apps 
 API 
 Data 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Blog 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 LinkedIn 
 Instagram 
 
 
site design / logo © 2020 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under  cc by-sa .                     rev 2020.7.30.37305 
 
 
 
 
 
 Physics Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
             
 
 
 