 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2020/07/17/5-ways-self-driving-cars-could-make-our-world-and-our-lives-better/#1ae396e142a3  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-29  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start self   driving   cars HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  html 5 Ways Self-Driving Cars Could Make Our World (And Our Lives) Better Billionaires All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest  Self -Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics  2020 Money Innovation All Innovation 5G AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Cybersecurity Enterprise Tech Games Green Tech Healthcare IBM Security BrandVoice | Paid Program Japan BrandVoice  | Paid Program Jumio BrandVoice  | Paid Program Oracle BrandVoice  | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice  | Paid Program Science ServiceNow BrandVoice | Paid Program Smartsheet BrandVoice | Paid Program Social Media T-Mobile For Business BrandVoice | Paid Program Venture Capital Leadership All Leadership Careers CFO Network CIO Network CMO Network Deloitte BrandVoice  | Paid Program Diversity & Inclusion Education ForbesWomen Google Cloud BrandVoice  | Paid Program Leadership Strategy Under 30 Working Remote Money All Money Banking & Insurance Crypto & Blockchain ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Markets Personal Finance Premium Investing Newsletters Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Business All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment KPMG BrandVoice | Paid Program Manufacturing Media Mitsubishi Heavy Industries BrandVoice | Paid Program Policy Real Estate Retail SportsMoney Transportation Small Business All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars  & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Lists All Lists Advisor All Advisor The Best Credit Cards Of 2020 Best Personal Loans Best Savings Accounts Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards Best Student Loans Best Checking Accounts Best 0% APR Credit Cards Auto Loan Calculator Best CD Rates Best Cash Back Credit Cards Personal Loan Calculator Best Online Banks  Best Rewards Credit Cards Best Car Insurance Rates Second Stimulus Check Calculator ($40K) Best Business Credit Cards Best Travel Insurance Companies Second Stimulus Check Calculator (HEROES) Browse All Credit Cards Best Life Insurance Companies Second Stimulus Check Calculator Proposals  Featured 30 Under 30 2020 DNA Of Success Forbes Analytics Plus With Teradata | Paid Program Roostify Insights | Paid Program Tableau BrandVoice | Paid Program ThePowerMBA BrandVoice | Paid Program The 2020 World's Most Valuable Brands Under 30 Detroit Hackathon: Accelerating Change Voices Of Success Wheels All Wheels More Forbes Daily Cover Stories Forbes Editors' Picks Daily Dozen Briefing Crypto Confidential Newsletters Forbes Shopping Forbes Coupons Forbes 8 Forbes Video Dark Capital Forbes Magazine Investing Digest Free Issue of Forbes Report a Security Issue Site Feedback Tips Corrections Privacy Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2020 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved BETA This is a BETA experience. You may opt-out by  clicking here Edit Story | Jul 17, 2020, 12:24am EDT 5 Ways  Self - Driving   Cars  Could Make Our World (And Our Lives) Better Bernard Marr Contributor Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Enterprise Tech Share to Facebook Share to Twitter Share to Linkedin With more than  40 companies  actively investing in autonomous vehicle technology, it’s fair to say that most traditional car manufacturers – plus the odd tech heavyweight, like Google parent company Alphabet – are busy chasing the  self - driving  car dream. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 Ways  Self - Driving   Cars  Could Make Our World (And Our Lives) Better 
 
 Adobe Stock 
 
 
 As a result, we’re likely to see the first truly autonomous, commercially viable driverless  cars  hit the market in the coming years. If that happens, autonomous vehicles have the potential to improve our world and make everyday life that little bit easier. Here are five ways I think society will benefit from autonomous  cars . 
 1. Making our roads safer 
 While there have been some high-profile cases of autonomous vehicles being involved in tragic fatal accidents, data suggests that  self - driving   cars  will ultimately make our roads safer. Statistics from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) show that driver error is by far the biggest cause of road traffic accidents, due to factors like miscalculations, errors of judgment, speeding, drink- driving , and phone use. In fact, an alarming  94 percent of serious crashes  are down to human error. Fully autonomous vehicles would take human error out of the equation, thereby making our roads safer not just for drivers, but also passengers, cyclists, and pedestrians. For that reason, the NHTSA has championed the safety benefits of autonomous vehicles. 
 
 2. Easing parking woes 
 It's also hoped that autonomous vehicles will improve parking in congested cities because driverless vehicles could simply drop passengers off and move on. This becomes increasingly realistic if the motorists of the future choose not to purchase their own  self - driving  vehicle, but instead make use of automated ride-sharing or taxi services. As an added bonus, with fewer people needing to find a parking space, land that is currently used for huge car parks could be repurposed for much-needed housing or attractive public spaces. With this in mind, the city of Chandler in Arizona has already changed its zoning laws to  accommodate autonomous vehicles ; developers will now be able to build properties with fewer parking spaces, so long as they provide suitable curb-side passenger loading zones. In other words, the buildings of the future may no longer be flanked by huge, ugly car parks, and will instead favor dedicated areas for drop-offs and pick-ups.  
 Most Popular In:  Enterprise Tech The 6 Biggest Technology Trends In Accounting And Finance Amazon Primed: Prime Day Delayed Again, Stealing Startups Secrets, Google Plays Hardball Inclusive Technology Is The Future Of Work 3. Making the daily commute more bearable 
 When we reach the point where human intervention behind the wheel is no longer needed, autonomous vehicles will drastically improve the daily commute. Imagine, instead of sitting behind the wheel, you’ll be able to stretch out in the back, get ahead on some work, or simply relax and catch up on your latest Netflix obsession. When you think that Americans spend  19 full working days a year stuck in traffic  on their commute, that’s an awful lot of time commuters will be able to claw back for themselves. 
 
 4. Reducing emissions (well, in theory) 
 In the future, with the majority of  self - driving  vehicles being electric or hybrids, and given the fact that autonomous vehicles drive more efficiently than humans, we could see a serious reduction in emissions. That’s the hope, anyway. One study by the  University of California, Davis  suggests that automated vehicles could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 80 percent by 2050 – but only if the vehicles are electric and shared. If we don't transition towards more shared vehicles, then the worrying prediction is emissions could actually increase (by as much as 50 percent by 2050, according to the same study). This is because  self - driving   cars  could make car ownership possible for people who cannot drive, potentially increasing the number of vehicles and miles driven. Therefore, this benefit is far from a foregone conclusion. As a society, we’ll need to rethink our attitude towards car ownership if we’re to reap the full environmental benefits of autonomous vehicles. 
 5. Cutting domestic air travel 
 Volvo’s  360c concept car , which was unveiled in 2018, provides a glimpse of a future in which  self - driving   cars  are no longer just  cars  – they're places to work, sleep, and relax. Almost a cross between a hotel room and the first-class cabin of a plane. Volvo’s vision is one of a luxurious, driverless future in which a car can pick you up and take you wherever you need to go, potentially eliminating the need for short-haul, domestic air travel. With Volvo’s concept, you would be able to order a car, pre-order food and drink, and then recline and relax in the back while the car transports you to your destination. You then arrive fresh-faced and relaxed, having endured none of the stress and exhaustion of plane travel. Particularly for journeys that could be made overnight, this vision could seriously disrupt the travel industry – and cut the carbon footprint associated with travel.  
 
 This move towards autonomous vehicles is just one of 25 technology trends that I believe will transform our society. Read more about these key trends – including plenty of real-world examples – in my new book,  Tech Trends in Practice: The 25 Technologies That Are  Driving  The 4th Industrial Revolution . 
 Follow me on  Twitter  or  LinkedIn .  Check out  my  website .  Bernard Marr Bernard Marr is an internationally best-selling author, popular keynote speaker, futurist, and a strategic business & technology advisor to governments and companies. He …  Read More Bernard Marr is an internationally best-selling author, popular keynote speaker, futurist, and a strategic business & technology advisor to governments and companies. He helps organisations improve their business performance, use data more intelligently, and understand the implications of new technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data, blockchains, and the Internet of Things. Why don’t you connect with Bernard on Twitter (@bernardmarr), LinkedIn (https://uk.linkedin.com/in/bernardmarr) or instagram (bernard.marr)?  Read Less Print Site Feedback Report a Security Issue Tips Corrections Reprints & Permissions Terms Privacy © 2020 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices 