 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_car  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-30  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start self   driving   cars HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  
 html 
 Self-driving car - Wikipedia 
 
 
 
 
  CentralNotice  
 
 
 Self - driving  car 
 
 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 
   (Redirected from  Autonomous car ) 
 
 
 Jump to navigation 
 Jump to search 
 This article is about the vehicle. For the system, see  automated  driving  system . For the wider application of artificial intelligence to automobiles, see  Unmanned ground vehicle . 
 This article  may be in need of reorganization to comply with Wikipedia's  layout guidelines .  Please help by  editing the article  to make improvements to the overall structure.   ( March 2018 )  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) 
 
 
 It has been suggested that portions of this section be  split  out  into another article titled  Vehicular automation . ( Discuss )  (May 2020) 
   Waymo   Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid  undergoing testing in the San Francisco Bay Area 
   Autonomous racing car on display at the  2017 New York City ePrix 
 A  self - driving  car , also known as an  autonomous vehicle  ( AV ),  connected and autonomous vehicle  ( CAV ),  driverless car ,  robo-car , or  robotic car , [1] [2] [3]  is a  vehicle  that is capable of sensing its environment and moving safely with little or no  human input . [1] [4] 
 Self - driving   cars  combine a variety of sensors to perceive their surroundings, such as  radar ,  lidar ,  sonar ,  GPS ,  odometry  and  inertial measurement units . [1]  Advanced  control systems  interpret  sensory information  to identify appropriate navigation paths, as well as obstacles and relevant  signage . [5] [6] [7] 
 Long-distance  trucking  is seen as being at the forefront of adopting and implementing the technology. [8] 
 
 Contents 
 
 1   History 
 2   Definitions 
 
 2.1   Terminology and safety considerations 
 2.2   Autonomous vs. automated 
 2.3   Autonomous versus cooperative 
 2.4   Self - driving  car 
 2.5   Classification 
 
 2.5.1   Levels of  driving  automation 
 
 
 
 
 3   Legal definition 
 4   Semi-automated vehicles 
 5   Technical challenges 
 6   Nature of the digital technology 
 
 6.1   Homogenization and decoupling 
 6.2   Connectivity 
 6.3   Reprogrammable 
 6.4   Digital traces 
 6.5   Modularity 
 
 
 7   Human factor challenges 
 8   Testing 
 9   Fields of application 
 
 9.1   Autonomous trucks and vans 
 9.2   Transport systems 
 
 
 10   Impact 
 
 10.1   Public health 
 10.2   Welfare 
 10.3   Traffic 
 10.4   Economic effects 
 10.5   Energy and environmental impacts 
 10.6   Self -parking and parking space 
 10.7   Privacy 
 
 
 11   Potential limits or obstacles 
 12   Potential changes for different industries 
 
 12.1   Taxis 
 12.2   Healthcare, car repair, and car insurance 
 12.3   Rescue, emergency response, and military 
 12.4   Interior design and entertainment 
 12.5   Telecommunication and energy 
 12.6   Restaurant, hotels, and airlines 
 12.7   Elderly and disabled 
 12.8   Children 
 
 
 13   Incidents 
 
 13.1   Tesla Autopilot 
 13.2   Waymo 
 13.3   Uber 
 13.4   Navya automated bus  driving  system 
 
 
 14   Policy implications 
 
 14.1   Urban planning 
 14.2   Legislation 
 
 14.2.1   Legal status in the United States 
 14.2.2   Legislation in Europe 
 14.2.3   Legislation in Asia 
 
 
 14.3   Liability 
 
 
 15   Vehicle communication systems 
 16   Public opinion surveys 
 17   Moral issues 
 18   Anticipated launch of  cars 
 19   In fiction 
 
 19.1   In film 
 19.2   In literature 
 19.3   In television 
 
 
 20   See also 
 21   References 
 22   Further reading 
 
 
 
 History [ edit ] 
 Main article:  History of  self - driving   cars 
 Experiments have been conducted on automated  driving  systems (ADS) since at least the 1920s; [9]  trials began in the 1950s. The first semi-automated car was developed in 1977, by Japan's Tsukuba Mechanical Engineering Laboratory, which required specially marked streets that were interpreted by two cameras on the vehicle and an analog computer. The vehicle reached speeds up to 30 kilometres per hour (19 mph) with the support of an elevated rail. [10] [11] 
 A landmark autonomous car appeared in the 1980s, with  Carnegie Mellon University 's  Navlab [12]  and ALV [13] [14]  projects funded by the United States'  Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency  (DARPA) starting in 1984 and  Mercedes-Benz  and  Bundeswehr University Munich 's  EUREKA Prometheus Project  in 1987. [15]  By 1985, the ALV had demonstrated  self - driving  speeds on two-lane roads of 31 kilometres per hour (19 mph), with obstacle avoidance added in 1986, and off-road  driving  in day and nighttime conditions by 1987. [16]  A major milestone was achieved in 1995, with  CMU's   NavLab 5  completing the first autonomous coast-to-coast drive of the United States. Of the 2,849 mi (4,585 km) between  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania  and  San Diego, California , 2,797 mi (4,501 km) were autonomous (98.2%), completed with an average speed of 63.8 mph (102.7 km/h). [17] [18] [19] [20]  From the 1960s through the second  DARPA Grand Challenge  in 2005, automated vehicle research in the United States was primarily funded by DARPA, the US Army, and the US Navy, yielding incremental advances in speeds,  driving  competence in more complex conditions, controls, and sensor systems. [21]  Companies and research organizations have developed prototypes. [15] [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] 
 The US allocated  US$ 650 million in 1991 for research on the National Automated Highway System, which demonstrated automated  driving  through a combination of automation embedded in the highway with automated technology in vehicles, and cooperative networking between the vehicles and with the highway infrastructure. The program concluded with a successful demonstration in 1997 but without clear direction or funding to implement the system on a larger scale. [30]  Partly funded by the National Automated Highway System and DARPA, the Carnegie Mellon University Navlab drove 4,584 kilometres (2,848 mi) across America in 1995, 4,501 kilometres (2,797 mi) or 98% of it autonomously. [31]  Navlab's record achievement stood unmatched for two decades until 2015, when Delphi improved it by piloting an Audi, augmented with Delphi technology, over 5,472 kilometres (3,400 mi) through 15 states while remaining in  self - driving  mode 99% of the time. [32]  In 2015, the US states of  Nevada ,  Florida ,  California ,  Virginia , and  Michigan , together with  Washington, DC , allowed the testing of automated  cars  on public roads. [33] 
 From 2016 to 2018, the  European Commission  funded an innovation strategy development for connected and automated  driving  through the Coordination Actions CARTRE and SCOUT. [34]  Moreover, the Strategic Transport Research and Innovation Agenda (STRIA) Roadmap for Connected and Automated Transport was published in 2019. [35] 
 In 2017,  Audi  stated that its latest  A8  would be automated at speeds of up to 60 kilometres per hour (37 mph) using its "Audi AI". The driver would not have to do safety checks such as frequently gripping the steering wheel. The Audi A8 was claimed to be the first production car to reach Level 3 automated  driving , and Audi would be the first manufacturer to use laser scanners in addition to cameras and ultrasonic sensors for their system. [36] 
 In November 2017,  Waymo  announced that it had begun testing driverless  cars  without a safety driver in the driver position; [37]  however, there was still an employee in the car. [38]  In October 2018, Waymo announced that its test vehicles had traveled in automated mode for over 10,000,000 miles (16,000,000 km), increasing by about 1,000,000 miles (1,600,000 kilometres) per month. [39]  In December 2018, Waymo was the first to commercialize a fully autonomous taxi service in the US, in Phoenix, Arizona. [40] 
 A*STAR's Institute for Infocomm Research (I 2 R) developed a  self - driving  vehicle which was the first to be approved in Singapore for public road testing at  one-north  in July 2015. It has ferried several dignitaries such as Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong , Minister  S. Iswaran , Minister  Vivian Balakrishnan , and several ministers from other countries. [41] [42] 
 In 2020, a  National Transportation Safety Board  chairman stated that no  self - driving   cars  were available to consumers in the US in 2020:
 
 There is not a vehicle currently available to US consumers that is  self - driving . Period. Every vehicle sold to US consumers still requires the driver to be actively engaged in the  driving  task, even when advanced driver assistance systems are activated. If you are selling a car with an advanced driver assistance system, you’re not selling a  self - driving  car. If you are  driving  a car with an advanced driver assistance system, you don’t own a  self - driving  car. [43] 
 Definitions [ edit ] 
 There is some inconsistency in the terminology used in the  self - driving  car industry. Various organizations have proposed to define an accurate and consistent vocabulary.
 Such confusion has been documented in  SAE J3016  which states that "Some vernacular usages associate autonomous specifically with full  driving  automation (Level 5), while other usages apply it to all levels of  driving  automation, and some state legislation has defined it to correspond approximately to any ADS [automated  driving  system] at or above Level 3 (or to any vehicle equipped with such an ADS)."
 
 Terminology and safety considerations [ edit ] 
 Modern vehicles provide partly automated features such as keeping the car within its lane, speed controls or emergency braking. Nonetheless, differences remain between a fully autonomous  self - driving  car on one hand and  driver assistance technologies  on the other hand. According to the  BBC , confusion between those concepts leads to deaths. [44] 
 The  Association of British Insurers  considers the usage of the word  autonomous  in marketing for modern  cars  to be dangerous because car ads make motorists think 'autonomous' and 'autopilot' means a vehicle can drive itself when they still rely on the driver to ensure safety. Technology alone still is not able to drive the car.
 When some car makers suggest or claim vehicles are  self - driving , when they are only partly automated, drivers risk becoming excessively confident, leading to crashes, while fully  self - driving   cars  are still a long way off in the UK. [45] 
 
 Autonomous vs. automated [ edit ] 
 Autonomous  means  self -governing. [46]  Many historical projects related to vehicle automation have been  automated  (made automatic) subject to a heavy reliance on artificial aids in their environment, such as magnetic strips. Autonomous control implies satisfactory performance under significant uncertainties in the environment and the ability to compensate for system failures without external intervention. [46] 
 One approach is to implement  communication networks  both in the immediate vicinity (for  collision avoidance ) and farther away (for congestion management). Such outside influences in the decision process reduce an individual vehicle's autonomy, while still not requiring human intervention.
 Wood et al. (2012) wrote, "This Article generally uses the term 'autonomous,' instead of the term 'automated.' " The term "autonomous" was chosen "because it is the term that is currently in more widespread use (and thus is more familiar to the general public). However, the latter term is arguably more accurate. 'Automated' connotes control or operation by a machine, while 'autonomous' connotes acting alone or independently. Most of the vehicle concepts (that we are currently aware of) have a person in the driver's seat, utilize a communication connection to the Cloud or other vehicles, and do not independently select either destinations or routes for reaching them. Thus, the term 'automated' would more accurately describe these vehicle concepts." [47]  As of 2017, most commercial projects focused on automated vehicles that did not communicate with other vehicles or with an enveloping management regime.
EuroNCAP defines autonomous in "Autonomous Emergency Braking" as: "the system acts independently of the driver to avoid or mitigate the accident." which implies the autonomous system is not the driver. [48] 
 Nonetheless, the words  automated  and  autonomous  might also be used together. For instance, Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2019 on type-approval requirements for motor vehicles (...) defines "automated vehicle" and "fully automated vehicle" based on their autonomous capacity: [49] 
 
 "automated vehicle" means a motor vehicle designed and constructed to move autonomously for certain periods of time without continuous driver supervision but in respect of which driver intervention is still expected or required; [49] 
 "fully automated vehicle" means a motor vehicle that has been designed and constructed to move autonomously without any driver supervision; [49] 
 Autonomous versus cooperative [ edit ] 
 To enable a car to travel without any driver embedded within the vehicle, some companies use a remote driver. [ citation needed ] 
 
According to  SAE J3016 ,  Some  driving  automation systems may indeed be autonomous if they perform all of their functions independently and  self -sufficiently, but if they depend on communication and/or cooperation with outside entities, they should be considered cooperative rather than autonomous. 
 Self - driving  car [ edit ] 
 PC Magazine  defines a  self - driving  car as "A computer-controlled car that drives itself." [50]  The  Union of Concerned Scientists  states that  self - driving   cars  are " cars  or trucks in which human drivers are never required to take control to safely operate the vehicle. Also known as autonomous or 'driverless'  cars , they combine sensors and software to control, navigate, and drive the vehicle." [51] 
 
 Classification [ edit ] 
   Tesla Autopilot system is classified as an SAE Level 2 system [52] 
 A classification system with six levels – ranging from fully manual to fully automated systems – was published in 2014 by  SAE International , an automotive standardization body, as J3016,  Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to On-Road Motor Vehicle Automated  Driving  Systems . [53] [54]  This classification is based on the amount of driver intervention and attentiveness required, rather than the vehicle's capabilities, although these are loosely related. In the United States in 2013, the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  (NHTSA) released a formal classification system, [55]  but abandoned it in favor of the SAE standard in 2016. Also in 2016, SAE updated its classification, called J3016_201609. [56] 
 
 
 Levels of  driving  automation [ edit ] 
 In SAE's automation level definitions, " driving  mode" means "a type of  driving  scenario with characteristic dynamic  driving  task requirements (e.g., expressway merging, high speed cruising, low speed traffic jam, closed-campus operations, etc.)" [1] [57] 
 
 Level 0: The automated system issues warnings and may momentarily intervene but has no sustained vehicle control. 
 Level 1 ("hands on"): The driver and the automated system share control of the vehicle. Examples are systems where the driver controls steering and the automated system controls engine power to maintain a set speed ( Cruise Control ) or engine and brake power to maintain and vary speed ( Adaptive Cruise Control  or ACC); and  Parking Assistance , where steering is automated while speed is under manual control. The driver must be ready to retake full control at any time.  Lane Keeping Assistance  (LKA) Type II is a further example of Level 1  self - driving . A  collision mitigation system  which alerts the driver to a crash and permits full braking capacity is also a Level 1 feature, according to Autopilot Review magazine. [58] 
 Level 2 ("hands off"): The automated system takes full control of the vehicle: accelerating, braking, and  steering . The driver must monitor the  driving  and be prepared to intervene immediately at any time if the automated system fails to respond properly. The shorthand "hands off" is not meant to be taken literally – contact between hand and wheel is often mandatory during SAE 2  driving , to confirm that the driver is ready to intervene. The eyes of the driver might be monitored by cameras to confirm that the driver is keeping their attention to traffic. 
 Level 3 ("eyes off"): The driver can safely turn their attention away from the  driving  tasks, e.g. the driver can text or watch a movie. The vehicle will handle situations that call for an immediate response, like emergency braking. The driver must still be prepared to intervene within some limited time, specified by the manufacturer, when called upon by the vehicle to do so. You can think of the automated system as a co-driver that will alert you in an orderly fashion when it is your turn to drive. An example would be a Traffic Jam Chauffeur. [59] 
 Level 4 ("mind off"): As level 3, but no driver attention is ever required for safety, e.g. the driver may safely go to sleep or leave the driver's seat.  Self - driving  is supported only in limited spatial areas ( geofenced ) or under special circumstances. Outside of these areas or circumstances, the vehicle must be able to safely abort the trip, e.g. park the car, if the driver does not retake control. An example would be a robotic taxi or a robotic delivery service that only covers selected locations in a specific area. 
 Level 5 ("steering wheel optional"): No human intervention is required at all. An example would be a robotic taxi that works on all roads all over the world, all year around, in all weather conditions. 
 In the formal SAE definition below, note in particular the shift from SAE 2 to SAE 3: the human driver no longer has to monitor the environment. This is the final aspect of the "dynamic  driving  task" that is now passed over from the human to the automated system. At SAE 3, the human driver still has responsibility to intervene when asked to do so by the automated system. At SAE 4 the human driver is always relieved of that responsibility and at SAE 5 the automated system will never need to ask for an intervention.
 
 
 SAE (J3016) Automation Levels [57] 
 
 
 SAE Level 
 Name 
 Narrative definition 
 Execution of steering and acceleration/ deceleration 
 Monitoring of  driving  environment 
 Fallback performance of dynamic  driving  task 
 System capability ( driving  modes)
 
 
 Human driver monitors the  driving  environment 
 
 
 0 
 No Automation 
 The full-time performance by the human driver of all aspects of the dynamic  driving  task, even when "enhanced by warning or intervention systems" 
 Human driver 
 Human driver 
 Human driver 
 n/a
 
 
 1 
 Driver Assistance 
 The  driving  mode-specific execution by a driver assistance system of "either steering or acceleration/deceleration" 
 using information about the  driving  environment and with the expectation that the human driver performs all remaining aspects of the dynamic  driving  task 
 Human driver and system 
 Some  driving  modes
 
 
 2 
 Partial Automation 
 The  driving  mode-specific execution by one or more driver assistance systems of  both steering and acceleration/deceleration 
 System
 
 
 Automated  driving  system monitors the  driving  environment 
 
 
 3 
 Conditional Automation 
 The  driving  mode-specific performance by an automated  driving  system of all aspects of the dynamic  driving  task 
 with the expectation that the  human driver will respond appropriately to a request to intervene 
 System 
 System 
 Human driver 
 Some  driving  modes
 
 
 4 
 High Automation 
 even if a human driver does not respond appropriately to a request to intervene 
 System 
 Many  driving  modes
 
 
 5 
 Full Automation 
 under all roadway and environmental conditions  that can be managed by a human driver 
 All  driving  modes
 
 Legal definition [ edit ] 
In  Washington, DC 's  district code :  "Autonomous vehicle" means a vehicle capable of navigating District roadways and interpreting traffic-control devices without a driver actively operating any of the vehicle's control systems. The term "autonomous vehicle" excludes a motor vehicle enabled with active safety systems or driver- assistance systems, including systems to provide electronic blind-spot assistance, crash avoidance, emergency braking, parking assistance, adaptive cruise control, lane-keep assistance, lane-departure warning, or traffic-jam and queuing assistance, unless the system alone or in combination with other systems enables the vehicle on which the technology is installed to drive without active control or monitoring by a human operator. 
 In the same district code, it is considered that:
 
 An autonomous vehicle may operate on a public roadway; provided, that the vehicle:
 (1) Has a manual override feature that allows a driver to assume control of the autonomous vehicle at any time; 
 (2) Has a driver seated in the control seat of the vehicle while in operation who is prepared to take control of the autonomous vehicle at any moment; and 
 (3) Is capable of operating in compliance with the District's applicable traffic laws and motor vehicle laws and traffic control devices. 
 Semi-automated vehicles [ edit ] 
 Between manually driven vehicles (SAE Level 0) and fully autonomous vehicles (SAE Level 5), there are a variety of vehicle types that can be described to have some degree of  automation . These are collectively known as semi-automated vehicles. As it could be a while before the technology and infrastructure are developed for full automation, it is likely that vehicles will have increasing levels of automation. These semi-automated vehicles could potentially harness many of the advantages of fully automated vehicles, while still keeping the driver in charge of the vehicle. [60] 
 
 Technical challenges [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Hybrid navigation 
 There are different systems that help the  self - driving  car control the car. Systems that need improvement include the car navigation system, the location system, the electronic map, the map matching, the global path planning, the environment perception, the laser perception, the radar perception, the visual perception, the vehicle control, the perception of vehicle speed and direction, and the vehicle control method. [61] 
 The challenge for driverless car designers is to produce control systems capable of analyzing sensory data in order to provide accurate detection of other vehicles and the road ahead. [62]  Modern  self - driving   cars  generally use  Bayesian   simultaneous localization and mapping  (SLAM) algorithms, [63]  which fuse data from multiple sensors and an off-line map into current location estimates and map updates. Waymo has developed a variant of SLAM with detection and tracking of other moving objects (DATMO), which also handles obstacles such as  cars  and pedestrians. Simpler systems may use roadside  real-time locating system  (RTLS) technologies to aid localization. Typical sensors include  lidar ,  stereo vision ,  GPS  and  IMU . [64] [65]  Control systems on automated  cars  may use  Sensor Fusion , which is an approach that integrates information from a variety of sensors on the car to produce a more consistent, accurate, and useful view of the environment. [66]  Heavy rainfall, hail, or snow could impede the car sensors. [ citation needed ] 
 Driverless vehicles require some form of  machine vision  for the purpose of visual object recognition. Automated  cars  are being developed with  deep neural networks , [64]  a type of  deep learning  architecture with many computational stages, or levels, in which neurons are simulated from the environment that activate the network. [67]  The neural network depends on an extensive amount of data extracted from real-life  driving  scenarios, [64]  enabling the neural network to "learn" how to execute the best course of action. [67] 
 In May 2018, researchers from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  announced that they had built an automated car that can navigate unmapped roads. [68]  Researchers at their  Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory  (CSAIL) have developed a new system, called MapLite, which allows  self - driving   cars  to drive on roads that they have never been on before, without using 3D maps. The system combines the GPS position of the vehicle, a "sparse topological map" such as  OpenStreetMap , (i.e. having 2D features of the roads only), and a series of sensors that observe the road conditions. [69] 
 
 Nature of the digital technology [ edit ] 
 This section  is written like a  personal reflection, personal essay, or argumentative essay  that states a Wikipedia editor's personal feelings or presents an original argument about a topic.  Please  help improve it  by rewriting it in an  encyclopedic style .   ( November 2019 )  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) 
 Autonomous vehicles, as digital technology, have certain characteristics that distinguish them from other types of technologies and vehicles. Due to these characteristics, autonomous vehicles are able to be more transformative and agile to possible changes. The characteristics will be explained based on the following subjects: homogenization and decoupling, connectivity, reprogrammable and smart, digital traces and modularity.
 
 Homogenization and decoupling [ edit ] 
 Homogenization comes from the fact that all digital information assumes the same form. During the ongoing evolution of the digital era, certain industry standards have been developed on how to store digital information and in what type of format. This concept of homogenization also applies to autonomous vehicles. In order for autonomous vehicles to perceive their surroundings, they have to use different techniques each with their own accompanying digital information (e.g. radar, GPS, motion sensors and computer vision). Due to homogenization, the digital information from these different techniques is stored in a homogeneous way. This implies that all digital information comes in the same form, which means their differences are decoupled, and digital information can be transmitted, stored and computed in a way that the vehicles and its operating system can better understand and act upon it. Homogenization also helps to exponentially increase the computing power of hard- and software (Moore's law) which also supports the autonomous vehicles to understand and act upon the digital information in a more cost-effective way, therefore lowering the marginal costs.;
 
 Connectivity [ edit ] 
 Connectivity means that users of a certain digital technology can connect easily with other users, other applications or even other enterprises. In the case of autonomous vehicles, it is essential for them to connect with other 'devices' in order to function most effectively. Autonomous vehicles are equipped with communication systems which allow them to communicate with other autonomous vehicles and roadside units to provide them, amongst other things, with information about road work or traffic congestion. In addition, scientists believe that the future will have computer programs that connect and manage each individual autonomous vehicle as it navigates through an intersection. This type of connectivity must replace traffic lights and stop signs. [70]  These types of characteristics drive and further develop the ability of autonomous vehicles to understand and cooperate with other products and services (such as intersection computer systems) in the autonomous vehicles market. This could lead to a network of autonomous vehicles all using the same network and information available on that network. Eventually, this can lead to more autonomous vehicles using the network because the information has been validated through the usage of other autonomous vehicles. Such movements will strengthen the value of the network and is called network externalities.
 
 Reprogrammable [ edit ] 
 Another characteristic of autonomous vehicles is that the core product will have a greater emphasis on the software and its possibilities, instead of the chassis and its engine. This is because autonomous vehicles have software systems that drive the vehicle meaning that updates through reprogramming or editing the software can enhance the benefits of the owner (e.g. update in better distinguishing blind person vs. non-blind person so that the vehicle will take extra caution when approaching a blind person). A characteristic of this reprogrammable part of autonomous vehicles is that the updates need not only to come from the supplier, because through machine learning, smart autonomous vehicles can generate certain updates and install them accordingly (e.g. new navigation maps or new intersection computer systems). These reprogrammable characteristics of the digital technology and the possibility of smart machine learning give manufacturers of autonomous vehicles the opportunity to differentiate themselves on software. This also implies that autonomous vehicles are never finished because the product can continuously be improved.
 
 Digital traces [ edit ] 
 Autonomous vehicles are equipped with different sorts of sensors and radars. As said, this allows them to connect and interoperate with computers from other autonomous vehicles and/or roadside units. This implies that autonomous vehicles leave digital traces when they connect or interoperate. The data that comes from these digital traces can be used to develop new (to be determined) products or updates to enhance autonomous vehicles'  driving  ability or safety.
 
 Modularity [ edit ] 
 Traditional vehicles and their accompanying technologies are manufactured as a product that will be complete, and unlike autonomous vehicles, they can only be improved if they are redesigned or reproduced. As said, autonomous vehicles are produced but due to their digital characteristics never finished. This is because autonomous vehicles are more modular since they are made up out of several modules which will be explained hereafter through a Layered Modular Architecture. The Layered Modular Architecture extends the architecture of purely physical vehicles by incorporating four loosely coupled layers of devices, networks, services and contents into Autonomous Vehicles. These loosely coupled layers can interact through certain standardized interfaces.
 
 (1) The first layer of this architecture consists of the device layer. This layer consists of the following two parts: logical capability and physical machinery. The physical machinery refers to the actual vehicle itself (e.g. chassis and carrosserie). When it comes to digital technologies, the physical machinery is accompanied by a logical capability layer in the form of operating systems that helps to guide the vehicles itself and make it autonomous. The logical capability provides control over the vehicle and connects it with the other layers.; 
 (2) On top of the device layer comes the network layer. This layer also consists of two different parts: physical transport and logical transmission. The physical transport layer refers to the radars, sensors and cables of the autonomous vehicles which enable the transmission of digital information. Next to that, the network layer of autonomous vehicles also has a logical transmission which contains communication protocols and network standard to communicate the digital information with other networks and platforms or between layers. This increases the accessibility of the autonomous vehicles and enables the computational power of a network or platform.; 
 (3) The service layer contains the applications and their functionalities that serves the autonomous vehicle (and its owners) as they extract, create, store and consume content with regards to their own  driving  history, traffic congestion, roads or parking abilities for example.; and 
 (4) The final layer of the model is the contents layer. This layer contains the sounds, images and videos. The autonomous vehicles store, extract and use to act upon and improve their  driving  and understanding of the environment. The contents layer also provides metadata and directory information about the content's origin, ownership, copyright, encoding methods, content tags, geo-time stamps, and so on (Yoo et al., 2010). 
 The consequence of layered modular architecture of autonomous vehicles (and other digital technologies) is that it enables the emergence and development of platforms and ecosystems around a product and/or certain modules of that product. Traditionally, automotive vehicles were developed, manufactured and maintained by traditional manufacturers. Nowadays app developers and content creators can help to develop more comprehensive product experience for the consumers which creates a platform around the product of autonomous vehicles.
 
 Human factor challenges [ edit ] 
 Self - driving   cars  are already exploring the difficulties of determining the intentions of pedestrians, bicyclists, and animals, and models of behavior must be programmed into  driving  algorithms. [7]  Human road users also have the challenge of determining the intentions of autonomous vehicles, where there is no driver with which to make eye contact or exchange hand signals.  Drive.ai  is testing a solution to this problem that involves LED signs mounted on the outside of the vehicle, announcing status such as "going now, don't cross" vs. "waiting for you to cross". [71] 
 Two human-factor challenges are important for safety. One is the handoff from automated  driving  to manual  driving , which may become necessary due to unfavorable or unusual road conditions, or if the vehicle has limited capabilities. A sudden handoff could leave a human driver dangerously unprepared in the moment. In the long term, humans who have less practice at  driving  might have a lower skill level and thus be more dangerous in manual mode. The second challenge is known as  risk compensation : as a system is perceived to be safer, instead of benefiting entirely from all of the increased safety, people engage in riskier behavior and enjoy other benefits. Semi-automated  cars  have been shown to suffer from this problem, for example with users of  Tesla Autopilot  ignoring the road and using electronic devices or other activities against the advice of the company that the car is not capable of being completely autonomous. In the near future, pedestrians and bicyclists may travel in the street in a riskier fashion if they believe  self - driving   cars  are capable of avoiding them.
 In order for people to buy  self - driving   cars  and vote for the government to allow them on roads, the technology must be trusted as safe. [72] [73]   Self - driving  elevators were invented in 1900, but the high number of people refusing to use them slowed adoption for several decades until operator strikes increased demand and trust was built with advertising and features like the emergency stop button. [74] 
 [75] 
 
 Testing [ edit ] 
   A prototype of  Waymo 's  self - driving  car, navigating public streets in  Mountain View, California  in 2017 
 The testing of vehicles with varying degrees of automation can be carried out either physically, in a closed environment [76]  or, where permitted, on public roads (typically requiring a license or permit, [77]  or adhering to a specific set of operating principles), [78]  or in a virtual environment, i.e. using computer simulations. [79] [80] 
When driven on public roads, automated vehicles require a person to monitor their proper operation and "take over" when needed. For example,  New York state  has strict requirements for the test driver, such that the vehicle can be corrected at all times by a licensed operator; highlighted by Cardian Cube Company's application and discussions with New York State officials and the NYS DMV. [81] 
 Apple  is testing  self - driving   cars , and has increased its fleet of test vehicles from three in April 2017, to 27 in January 2018, and 45 by March 2018. [82] [83] 
 Russian internet-company  Yandex  started to develop  self - driving   cars  in early 2017. The first driverless prototype was launched in May 2017. In November 2017, Yandex released a video of its AV winter tests. [84]  The car drove successfully along snowy roads of Moscow. In June 2018, Yandex  self - driving  vehicle completed a 485-mile (780 km) trip on a federal highway from Moscow to  Kazan  in autonomous mode. [85] [86]  In August 2018, Yandex launched a Europe's first  robotaxi  service with no human driver behind the wheel in the Russian town of  Innopolis . [87]  At the beginning of 2020 it was reported that over 5,000 autonomous passenger rides were made in the city. [88]  At the end of 2018, Yandex obtained a license to operate autonomous vehicles on public roads in Nevada, USA. In 2019 and 2020, Yandex  cars  carried out demo rides for  Consumer Electronic Show  visitors in Las Vegas. Yandex  cars  were circulating the streets of the city without any human control. [89] [90]  In 2019 Yandex started testing its  self - driving   cars  on the public roads of Israel. [91]  In October 2019, Yandex became one of the companies selected by  Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT)  to provide autonomous passenger rides to the visitors of Detroit Autoshow 2020. [92]  At the end of 2019, Yandex made an announcement its  self - driving   cars  passed 1 million miles in fully autonomous mode in Russia, Israel and USA. [93]  In February 2020, Yandex doubled its mileage with 2 million miles passed. [94] 
 The progress of automated vehicles can be assessed by computing the average distance driven between "disengagements", when the automated system is switched off, typically by the intervention of a human driver. In 2017, Waymo reported 63 disengagements over 352,545 mi (567,366 km) of testing, an average distance of 5,596 mi (9,006 km) between disengagements, the highest among companies reporting such figures. Waymo also traveled a greater total distance than any of the other companies. Their 2017 rate of 0.18 disengagements per 1,000 mi (1,600 km) was an improvement over the 0.2 disengagements per 1,000 mi (1,600 km) in 2016, and 0.8 in 2015. In March 2017, Uber reported an average of just 0.67 mi (1.08 km) per disengagement. In the final three months of 2017,  Cruise  (now owned by  GM ) averaged 5,224 mi (8,407 km) per disengagement over a total distance of 62,689 mi (100,888 km). [95]  In July 2018, the first electric driverless racing car, "Robocar", completed a 1.8-kilometer track, using its navigation system and artificial intelligence. [96] 
 
 
 Distance between disengagement and total distance traveled autonomously
 
 
 Car maker
 
 California, 2016 [95] 
 
 California, 2018 [97] 
 
 
 Distance between  disengagements
 
 Total distance traveled
 
 Distance between  disengagements
 
 Total distance traveled
 
 
 Waymo 
 
 5,128 mi (8,253 km)
 
 635,868 mi (1,023,330 km)
 
 11,154 mi (17,951 km)
 
 1,271,587 mi (2,046,421 km)
 
 
 BMW 
 
 638 mi (1,027 km)
 
 638 mi (1,027 km)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nissan 
 
 263 mi (423 km)
 
 6,056 mi (9,746 km)
 
 210 mi (340 km)
 
 5,473 mi (8,808 km)
 
 
 Ford 
 
 197 mi (317 km)
 
 590 mi (950 km)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 General Motors 
 
 55 mi (89 km)
 
 8,156 mi (13,126 km)
 
 5,205 mi (8,377 km)
 
 447,621 mi (720,376 km)
 
 
 Delphi Automotive Systems 
 
 15 mi (24 km)
 
 2,658 mi (4,278 km)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tesla 
 
 3 mi (4.8 km)
 
 550 mi (890 km)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mercedes-Benz 
 
 2 mi (3.2 km)
 
 673 mi (1,083 km)
 
 1.5 mi (2.4 km)
 
 1,749 mi (2,815 km)
 
 
 Bosch 
 
 7 mi (11 km)
 
 983 mi (1,582 km)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Zoox
 
 
 
 
 
 1,923 mi (3,095 km)
 
 30,764 mi (49,510 km)
 
 
 Nuro 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,028 mi (1,654 km)
 
 24,680 mi (39,720 km)
 
 
 Pony.ai 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,022 mi (1,645 km)
 
 16,356 mi (26,322 km)
 
 
 Baidu ( Apolong )
 
 
 
 
 
 206 mi (332 km)
 
 18,093 mi (29,118 km)
 
 
 Aurora
 
 
 
 
 
 100 mi (160 km)
 
 32,858 mi (52,880 km)
 
 
 Apple
 
 
 
 
 
 1.1 mi (1.8 km)
 
 79,745 mi (128,337 km)
 
 
 Uber
 
 
 
 
 
 0.4 mi (0.64 km)
 
 26,899 mi (43,290 km)
 
 Fields of application [ edit ] 
 Autonomous trucks and vans [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Autonomous truck 
 Further information:  Online food ordering 
 Companies such as  Otto  and  Starsky Robotics  have focused on autonomous trucks. Automation of trucks is important, not only due to the improved safety aspects of these very heavy vehicles, but also due to the ability of fuel savings through  platooning .
 Autonomous vans are being used by  online grocers  such as  Ocado .
 
 Transport systems [ edit ] 
 China trialed the first automated public bus in Henan province in 2015, on a highway linking Zhengzhou and Kaifeng.  [98]   [99]   Baidu  and  King Long  produce automated minibus, a vehicle with 14 seats, but without  driving  seat. With 100 vehicles produced, 2018 will be the first year with commercial automated service in China. [100] [101] 
 In Europe, cities in Belgium, France, Italy and the UK are planning to operate transport systems for automated  cars , [102] [103] [104]  and Germany, the Netherlands, and Spain have allowed public testing in traffic. In 2015, the UK launched public trials of the  LUTZ Pathfinder  automated pod in  Milton Keynes . [105]  Beginning in summer 2015, the French government allowed  PSA Peugeot-Citroen  to make trials in real conditions in the Paris area. The experiments were planned to be extended to other cities such as Bordeaux and Strasbourg by 2016. [106]  The alliance between French companies  THALES  and  Valeo  (provider of the first  self -parking car system that equips Audi and Mercedes premi) is testing its own system. [107]  New Zealand is planning to use automated vehicles for public transport in Tauranga and Christchurch. [108] [109] [110] [111] 
 
 Impact [ edit ] 
 According to a 2020 study,  self - driving   cars  will increase productivity, and housing affordability, as well as reclaim land used for parking. [112]  However,  self - driving   cars  will cause greater energy use, traffic congestion and sprawl. [112] 
 According to a 2020  Annual Review of Public Health  review of the literature,  self - driving   cars  "could increase some health risks (such as air pollution, noise, and sedentarism); however, if proper regulated, AVs will likely reduce morbidity and mortality from motor vehicle crashes and may help reshape cities to promote healthy urban environments." [113] 
 
 Public health [ edit ] 
 Driving  safety experts predict that once driverless technology has been fully developed,  traffic collisions  (and  resulting deaths and injuries  and costs) caused by  human error , such as delayed  reaction time ,  tailgating ,  rubbernecking , and other forms of  distracted  or  aggressive  driving  should be substantially reduced. [1] [114] [115] [116] [117]  If 90% of  cars  in the US became  self - driving , for example, an estimated 25,000 lives would be saved annually. [113] 
 According to motorist website "TheDrive.com" operated by  Time  magazine, none of the  driving  safety experts they were able to contact were able to rank  driving  under an autopilot system at the time (2017) as having achieved a greater level of safety than traditional fully hands-on  driving , so the degree to which these benefits asserted by proponents will manifest in practice cannot be assessed. [118]  Confounding factors that could reduce the net effect on safety may include unexpected interactions between humans and partly or fully automated vehicles, or between different types of vehicle system; complications at the boundaries of functionality at each automation level (such as handover when the vehicle reaches the limit of its capacity); the effect of the bugs and flaws that inevitably occur in complex interdependent software systems; sensor or data shortcomings; and successful compromise by malicious interveners. Security problems include what an autonomous car might do if summoned to pick up the owner but another person attempts entry, what happens if someone tries to break in to the car, and what happens if someone attacks the occupants, for example by exchanging gunfire. [119] 
 To help reduce the possibility of these confounding factors, some companies have begun to  open-source  parts of their driverless systems.  Udacity  for instance is developing an open-source  software stack , [120]  and some companies are having similar approaches. [121] [122] 
 Some [ who? ]  believe that once automation in vehicles reaches higher levels and becomes reliable, drivers will pay less attention to the road. [123]  Research shows that drivers in automated  cars  react later when they have to intervene in a critical situation, compared to if they were  driving  manually. [124]  Depending on the capabilities of automated vehicles and the frequency with which human intervention is needed, this may counteract any increase in safety, as compared to all-human  driving , that may be delivered by other factors.
 A potential side effect of decreasing car accidents is reducing the supply of  organs for donation . In the US, for example, 13% of the organ donation supply comes from car crash victims. [113] 
 
 Welfare [ edit ] 
 Automated  cars  could reduce  labor costs ; [125] [126]  relieve travelers from  driving  and navigation chores, thereby replacing behind-the-wheel commuting hours with more time for leisure or work; [114] [117]  and also would lift constraints on occupant ability to drive, distracted and  texting while  driving ,  intoxicated , prone to  seizures , or otherwise impaired. [127] [128] [129]  For the young, the  elderly ,  people with disabilities , and low-income citizens, automated  cars  could provide enhanced  mobility . [130] [131] [132]  The removal of the steering wheel—along with the remaining driver interface and the requirement for any occupant to assume a forward-facing position—would give the interior of the cabin greater ergonomic flexibility. Large vehicles, such as motorhomes, would attain appreciably enhanced ease of use. [133] 
 
 Traffic [ edit ] 
 Additional advantages could include higher  speed limits ; [134]  smoother rides; [135]  and increased roadway capacity; and minimized  traffic congestion , due to decreased need for safety gaps and higher speeds. [136] [137]  Currently, maximum  controlled-access highway  throughput or capacity according to the US  Highway Capacity Manual  is about 2,200 passenger vehicles per hour per lane, with about 5% of the available road space is taken up by  cars . One study estimated that automated  cars  could increase capacity by 273% (≈8,200  cars  per hour per lane). The study also estimated that with 100% connected vehicles using vehicle-to-vehicle communication, capacity could reach 12,000 passenger vehicles per hour (up 545% from 2,200 pc/h per lane) traveling safely at 120 km/h (75 mph) with a following gap of about 6 m (20 ft) of each other. Human drivers at highway speeds keep between 40 to 50 m (130 to 160 ft) away from the vehicle in front. These increases in highway capacity could have a significant impact in traffic congestion, particularly in urban areas, and even effectively end highway congestion in some places. [138]  The ability for authorities to manage  traffic flow  would increase, given the extra data and  driving  behavior predictability [139]  combined with less need for  traffic police  and even  road signage .
 
 Economic effects [ edit ] 
 Safer  driving  is expected to reduce the costs of  vehicle insurance . [125] [140] [ failed verification ]  Lives saved by averting automobile crashes in the US has been valued at more than $200 billion annually. [113] 
 A direct impact of widespread adoption of automated vehicles is the loss of  driving -related jobs in the road transport industry. [1] [125] [126] [141]  There could be resistance from professional drivers and unions who are threatened by job losses. [142]  In addition, there could be job losses in public transit services and crash repair shops. The automobile insurance industry might suffer as the technology makes certain aspects of these occupations obsolete. [132]  A frequently cited paper by Michael Osborne and  Carl Benedikt Frey  found that automated  cars  would make many jobs redundant. [143]  The industry has, however created thousands of jobs in low-income countries for workers who train autonomous systems [144] .
 
 Energy and environmental impacts [ edit ] 
 Vehicle automation can improve  fuel economy  of the car by optimizing the drive cycle. [145]  Reduced traffic congestion and the improvements in traffic flow due to widespread use of automated  cars  will translate into higher  fuel efficiency . [146]  Additionally,  self - driving   cars  will be able to accelerate and brake more efficiently, meaning higher fuel economy from reducing wasted energy typically associated with inefficient changes to speed. However, the improvement in vehicle energy efficiency does not necessarily translate to net reduction in energy consumption and positive environmental outcomes. It is expected that convenience of the automated vehicles encourages the consumers to travel more, and this  induced demand  may partially or fully offset the  fuel efficiency  improvement brought by automation. [145]  Overall, the consequences of vehicle automation on global energy demand and emissions are highly uncertain, and heavily depends on the combined effect of changes in consumer behavior, policy intervention, technological progress and vehicle technology. [145] 
 By reducing the labor and other costs of  mobility as a service , automated  cars  could reduce the number of  cars  that are individually owned, replaced by taxi/pooling and other car-sharing services. [147] [148]  This would also dramatically reduce the size of the automotive production industry, with corresponding environmental and economic effects.
 The lack of stressful  driving , more productive time during the trip, and the potential savings in travel time and cost could become an incentive to live far away from cities, where housing is cheaper, and work in the city's core, thus increasing travel distances and inducing more  urban sprawl , raising energy consumption and enlarging the  carbon footprint  of urban travel. [145] [149] [150]  There is also the risk that traffic congestion might increase, rather than decrease. [145] [132]  Appropriate public policies and regulations, such as zoning, pricing, and urban design are required to avoid the negative impacts of increased suburbanization and longer distance travel. [132] [150] 
 
 Self -parking and parking space [ edit ] 
 A study conducted by  AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety  found that drivers did not trust  self -parking technology, even though the systems outperformed drivers with a backup camera. The study tested  self -parking systems in a variety of vehicles (Lincoln MKC, Mercedes-Benz ML400 4Matic, Cadillac CTS-V Sport, BMW i3 and Jeep Cherokee Limited) and found that  self -parking  cars  hit the curb 81% fewer times, used 47% fewer maneuvers and parked 10% faster than drivers. Yet, only 25% of those surveyed said they would trust this technology. [151] 
 Manually driven vehicles are reported to be used only 4–5% of the time, and being parked and unused for the remaining 95–96% of the time. [152] [153]  Autonomous  taxis  could, on the other hand, be used continuously after they have reached their destination. This could dramatically reduce the need for  parking space . For example, in  Los Angeles  a 2015 study found 14% of the land is used for parking alone, equivalent to some 1,702 hectares (4,210 acres). [154] [155]  This combined with the potential reduced need for road space due to improved traffic flow, could free up large amounts of land in urban areas, which could then be used for parks, recreational areas, buildings, among other uses; making cities more livable.
 Besides this, privately owned  self - driving   cars , also capable of  self -parking would provide another advantage: the ability to drop off and pick up passengers even in places where parking is prohibited. This would benefit  park and ride  facilities. [156] 
 
 Privacy [ edit ] 
 The vehicles' increased awareness could aid the police by reporting on illegal passenger behavior, while possibly enabling other crimes, such as deliberately crashing into another vehicle or a pedestrian. [157]  However, this may also lead to much expanded mass surveillance if there is wide access granted to third parties to the large data sets generated.
 Privacy could be an issue when having the vehicle's location and position integrated into an interface that other people have access to. [1] [158]  In addition, there is the risk of  automotive hacking  through the sharing of information through  V2V  (Vehicle to Vehicle) and V2I (Vehicle to Infrastructure) protocols. [159] [160] [161]  There is also the risk of terrorist attacks.  Self - driving   cars  could potentially be loaded with explosives and used as  bombs . [162] 
 
 Potential limits or obstacles [ edit ] 
 The sort of hoped-for potential benefits from increased vehicle automation described may be limited by foreseeable challenges, such as disputes over liability, [163] [164]  the time needed to turn over the existing stock of vehicles from non-automated to automated, [165]  and thus a long period of humans and autonomous vehicles sharing the roads, resistance by individuals to having to forfeit control of their  cars , [166]  concerns about the safety of driverless in practice, [167]  and the implementation of a legal framework and consistent global government regulations for  self - driving   cars . [168] 
 Other obstacles could include de-skilling and lower levels of driver experience for dealing with potentially dangerous situations and anomalies, [169]  ethical problems where an automated vehicle's software is forced during an unavoidable crash to choose between multiple harmful courses of action ('the  trolley problem '), [170] [171]  concerns about making large numbers of people currently employed as drivers unemployed, the potential for more intrusive mass surveillance of location, association and travel as a result of police and intelligence agency access to large data sets generated by sensors and pattern-recognition AI, and possibly insufficient understanding of verbal sounds, gestures and non-verbal cues by police, other drivers or pedestrians. [172] 
 
   Autonomous delivery vehicles stuck in one place by attempting to avoid one another. 
 Possible technological obstacles for automated  cars  are:
 
 Artificial Intelligence is still not able to function properly in chaotic inner-city environments. [173] 
 A car's computer could potentially be compromised, as could a communication system between  cars . [174] [175] [176] [177] [178] 
 Susceptibility of the car's sensing and navigation systems to different types of weather (such as snow) or deliberate interference, including jamming and spoofing. [172] 
 Avoidance of large animals requires recognition and tracking, and Volvo found that software suited to  caribou ,  deer , and  elk  was ineffective with  kangaroos . [179] 
 Autonomous  cars  may require very high-quality specialised maps to operate properly. Where these maps may be out of date, they would need to be able to fall back to reasonable behaviors. 
 Competition for the radio spectrum desired for the car's communication. [180] 
 Field programmability for the systems will require careful evaluation of product development and the component supply chain. [178] 
 Current road infrastructure may need changes for automated  cars  to function optimally. [181] 
 Social challenges include:
 
 Government over-regulation, or even uncertainty about potential future regulation, may delay deployment of automated  cars  on the road. [182] 
 Employment – Companies working on the technology have an increasing recruitment problem in that the available talent pool has not grown with demand. [183]  As such, education and training by third-party organisations such as providers of online courses and  self -taught community-driven projects such as DIY Robocars [184]  and Formula Pi have quickly grown in popularity, while university level extra-curricular programmes such as Formula Student Driverless [185]  have bolstered graduate experience. Industry is steadily increasing freely available information sources, such as code, [186]  datasets [187]  and glossaries [188]  to widen the recruitment pool. 
 Potential changes for different industries [ edit ] 
 The traditional automobile industry is subject to changes driven by technology and market demands. These changes include breakthrough technological advances and when the market demands and adopts new technology quickly. In the rapid advance of both factors, the end of the era of incremental change was recognized. When the transition is made to a new technology, new entrants to the automotive industry present themselves, which can be distinguished as mobility providers such as Uber and Lyft, as well as tech giants such as  Google  and  Nvidia [189] .  As new entrants to the industry arise, market uncertainty naturally occurs due to the changing dynamics. For example, the entrance of tech giants, as well as the alliances between them and traditional car manufacturers causes a variation in the innovation and production process of autonomous vehicles. Additionally, the entrance of mobility providers has caused ambiguous user preferences. As a result of the rise of mobility providers, the number of vehicles per capita has flatlined. In addition, the rise of the sharing economy also contributes to market uncertainty and causes forecasters to question whether personal ownership of vehicles is still relevant as new transportation technology and mobility providers are becoming preferred among consumers.
 
 Taxis [ edit ] 
 With the aforementioned ambiguous user preference regarding the personal ownership of autonomous vehicles, it is possible that the current mobility provider trend will continue as it rises in popularity. Established providers such as Uber and Lyft are already significantly present within the industry, and it is likely that new entrants will enter when business opportunities arise. [190] 
 
 Healthcare, car repair, and car insurance [ edit ] 
 With the increasing reliance of autonomous vehicles on interconnectivity and the availability of big data which is made usable in the form of real-time maps,  driving  decisions can be made much faster in order to prevent collisions. [7]  Numbers made available by the US government state that 94% of the vehicle accidents are due to human failures. As a result, major implications for the healthcare industry become apparent. Numbers from the National Safety Council on killed and injured people on US roads multiplied by the average costs of a single incident reveal that an estimated US$500 billion loss may be imminent for the US healthcare industry when autonomous vehicles are dominating the roads. It is likely the anticipated decrease in traffic accidents will positively contribute to the widespread acceptance of autonomous vehicles, as well as the possibility to better allocate healthcare resources. As collisions are less likely to occur, and the risk for human errors is reduced significantly, the repair industry will face an enormous reduction of work that has to be done on the reparation of car frames. Meanwhile, as the generated data of the autonomous vehicle is likely to predict when certain replaceable parts are in need of maintenance, car owners and the repair industry will be able to proactively replace a part that will fail soon. This "Asset Efficiency Service" would implicate a productivity gain for the automotive repair industry.  As fewer collisions implicate less money spent on repair costs, the role of the insurance industry is likely to be altered as well. It can be expected that the increased safety of transport due to autonomous vehicles will lead to a decrease in payouts for the insurers, which is positive for the industry, but fewer payouts may imply a demand drop for insurances in general. The insurance industry may have to create new insurance models in the near future to accommodate the changes.  An unexpected disadvantage of the widespread acceptance of autonomous vehicles would be a reduction in organs available for transplant. [191] 
 
 Rescue, emergency response, and military [ edit ] 
 The technique used in autonomous  driving  also ensures life savings in other industries. The implementation of autonomous vehicles with rescue, emergency response, and military applications has already led to a decrease in deaths. [ citation needed ]  Military personnel use autonomous vehicles to reach dangerous and remote places on earth to deliver fuel, food and general supplies, and even rescue people. In addition, a future implication of adopting autonomous vehicles could lead to a reduction in deployed personnel, which will lead to a decrease in injuries, since the technological development allows autonomous vehicles to become more and more autonomous. Another future implication is the reduction of emergency drivers when autonomous vehicles are deployed as fire trucks or ambulances. An advantage could be the use of real-time traffic information and other generated data to determine and execute routes more efficiently than human drivers. The time savings can be invaluable in these situations. [192] 
 
 Interior design and entertainment [ edit ] 
 With the driver decreasingly focused on operating a vehicle, the interior design and media-entertainment industry will have to reconsider what passengers of autonomous vehicles are doing when they are on the road. Vehicles need to be redesigned, and possibly even be prepared for multipurpose usage. In practice, it will show that travelers have more time for business and/or leisure. In both cases, this gives increasing opportunities for the media-entertainment industry to demand attention. Moreover, the advertisement business is able to provide location based ads without risking driver safety. [193] 
 
 Telecommunication and energy [ edit ] 
 All  cars  can benefit from information and connections, but autonomous  cars  "Will be fully capable of operating without C-V2X." [194]  In addition, the earlier mentioned entertainment industry is also highly dependent on this network to be active in this market segment. This implies higher revenues for the telecommunication industry.
 Since many autonomous vehicles are going to rely on electricity to operate, the demand for lithium batteries increases. Similarly, radar, sensors,  lidar , and high-speed internet connectivity require higher auxiliary power from vehicles, which manifests as greater power draw from batteries. [145]  The larger battery requirement causes a necessary increase in supply of these type of batteries for the chemical industry. On the other hand, with the expected increase of battery powered (autonomous) vehicles, the petroleum industry is expected to undergo a decline in demand. As this implication depends on the adoption rate of autonomous vehicles, it is unsure to what extent this implication will disrupt this particular industry. This transition phase of oil to electricity allows companies to explore whether there are business opportunities for them in the new energy ecosystem. In 2020, Mohan, Sripad, Vaishnav & Viswanathan at Carnegie Mellon University [195]  found that the electricity consumption of all the automation technology, including sensors, computation, internet access as well as the increased drag from sensors causes up to a 15% impact on the range of an automated electric vehicle, therefore, implying that the larger battery requirement might not be as large as previously assumed.
 
 Restaurant, hotels, and airlines [ edit ] 
 Driver interactions with the vehicle will be less common within the near future, and in the more distant future the responsibility will lie entirely with the vehicle. As indicated above, this will have implications for the entertainment- and interior design industry. For roadside restaurants, the implication will be that the need for customers to stop  driving  and enter the restaurant will vanish, and the autonomous vehicle will have a double function. Moreover, accompanied with the rise of disruptive platforms such as Airbnb that have shaken up the hotel industry, the fast increase of developments within the autonomous vehicle industry might cause another implication for their customer bases. In the more distant future, the implication for motels might be that a decrease in guests will occur, since autonomous vehicles could be redesigned as fully equipped bedrooms. The improvements regarding the interior of the vehicles might additionally have implications for the airline industry. In the case of relatively short-haul flights, waiting times at customs or the gate imply lost time and hassle for customers. With the improved convenience in future car travel, it is possible that customers might go for this option, causing a loss in customer bases for airline industry. [196] 
 
 Elderly and disabled [ edit ] 
 The elderly and  persons with disabilities  (such as persons who are  hearing-impaired ,  vision-impaired ,  mobility-impaired , or  cognitively-impaired ) are potential beneficiaries of adoption of autonomous vehicles; however, the extent to which such populations gain greater mobility from the adoption of AV technology depends on the specific designs and regulations adopted. [197] [198] 
 
 Children [ edit ] 
 Further information:  Student transport 
 Children and teens, who are not able to drive a vehicle themselves, are also benefiting of the introduction of autonomous  cars [ when? ] . Daycares and schools are able to come up with automated pick up and drop off systems by car in addition to  walking ,  cycling  and busing, causing a decrease of reliance on parents and childcare workers. The extent to which human actions are necessary for  driving  will vanish. Since current vehicles require human actions to some extent, the  driving  school industry will not be disrupted until the majority of autonomous transportation is switched to the emerged dominant design. It is plausible that in the distant future  driving  a vehicle will be considered as a luxury, which implies that the structure of the industry is based on new entrants and a new market. [199] 
 
 Incidents [ edit ] 
 See also:  List of  self - driving  car fatalities 
 Tesla Autopilot [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Tesla Autopilot 
 In mid‑October 2015,  Tesla Motors  rolled out version 7 of their software in the US that included  Tesla Autopilot  capability. [200]  On 9 January 2016, Tesla rolled out version 7.1 as an  over-the-air  update, adding a new "summon" feature that allows  cars  to  self -park at parking locations without the driver in the car. [201]  Tesla's automated  driving  features is currently classified as a Level 2 driver assistance system according to the  Society of Automotive Engineers'  (SAE) five levels of vehicle automation. At this level the car can be automated but requires the full attention of the driver, who must be prepared to take control at a moment's notice. [202] [203] [204] [205]  Autopilot should be used only on  limited-access highways , and sometimes it will fail to detect lane markings and disengage itself. In urban  driving  the system will not read traffic signals or obey stop signs. The system also does not detect pedestrians or cyclists. [206] 
 
   Tesla Model S Autopilot system  in use in July 2016; it was only suitable for  limited-access highways , not for urban  driving . Among other limitations, it could not detect pedestrians or cyclists. [206] 
 On 20 January 2016, the first known fatal crash of a Tesla with Autopilot occurred in China's Hubei province. According to China's  163.com  news channel, this marked "China's first accidental death due to Tesla's automatic  driving  (system)". Initially, Tesla pointed out that the vehicle was so badly damaged from the impact that their recorder was not able to conclusively prove that the car had been on Autopilot at the time; however, 163.com pointed out that other factors, such as the car's absolute failure to take any evasive actions prior to the high speed crash, and the driver's otherwise good  driving  record, seemed to indicate a strong likelihood that the car was on Autopilot at the time. A similar fatal crash occurred four months later in Florida. [207] [208]  In 2018, in a subsequent civil suit between the father of the driver killed and Tesla, Tesla did not deny that the car had been on Autopilot at the time of the accident, and sent evidence to the victim's father documenting that fact. [209] 
 The second known fatal accident involving a vehicle being driven by itself took place in  Williston, Florida  on 7 May 2016 while a Tesla Model S  electric car  was engaged in Autopilot mode. The occupant was killed in a crash with an 18-wheel  tractor-trailer . On 28 June 2016 the  US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  (NHTSA) opened a formal investigation into the accident working with the  Florida Highway Patrol . According to NHTSA, preliminary reports indicate the crash occurred when the tractor-trailer made a left turn in front of the Tesla at an intersection on a non-controlled access highway, and the car failed to apply the brakes. The car continued to travel after passing under the truck's trailer. [210] [211]  NHTSA's preliminary evaluation was opened to examine the design and performance of any automated  driving  systems in use at the time of the crash, which involved a population of an estimated 25,000 Model S  cars . [212]  On 8 July 2016, NHTSA requested Tesla Motors provide the agency detailed information about the design, operation and testing of its Autopilot technology. The agency also requested details of all design changes and updates to Autopilot since its introduction, and Tesla's planned updates schedule for the next four months. [213] 
 According to Tesla, "neither autopilot nor the driver noticed the white side of the tractor-trailer against a brightly lit sky, so the brake was not applied." The car attempted to drive full speed under the trailer, "with the bottom of the trailer impacting the windshield of the Model S". Tesla also claimed that this was Tesla's first known autopilot death in over 130 million miles (210 million kilometers) driven by its customers with Autopilot engaged, however by this statement, Tesla was apparently refusing to acknowledge claims that the January 2016 fatality in Hubei China had also been the result of an autopilot system error. According to Tesla there is a fatality every 94 million miles (151 million kilometers) among all type of vehicles in the US [210] [211] [214]  However, this number also includes fatalities of the crashes, for instance, of motorcycle drivers with pedestrians. [215] [216] 
 In July 2016, the US  National Transportation Safety Board  (NTSB) opened a formal investigation into the fatal accident while the Autopilot was engaged. The NTSB is an investigative body that has the power to make only policy recommendations. An agency spokesman said "It's worth taking a look and seeing what we can learn from that event, so that as that automation is more widely introduced we can do it in the safest way possible." [217]  In January 2017, the NTSB released the report that concluded Tesla was not at fault; the investigation revealed that for Tesla  cars , the crash rate dropped by 40 percent after Autopilot was installed. [218] 
 According to Tesla, starting 19 October 2016, all Tesla  cars  are built with hardware to allow full  self - driving  capability at the highest safety level (SAE Level 5). [219]  The hardware includes eight surround cameras and twelve ultrasonic sensors, in addition to the forward-facing radar with enhanced processing capabilities. [220]  The system will operate in "shadow mode" (processing without taking action) and send data back to Tesla to improve its abilities until the software is ready for deployment via over-the-air upgrades. [221]  After the required testing, Tesla hopes to enable full  self - driving  by the end of 2020 under certain conditions.
 
 Waymo [ edit ] 
   Google's in-house  automated car 
 Waymo originated as a  self - driving  car project within  Google . In August 2012, Google announced that their vehicles had completed over 300,000 automated- driving  miles (500,000 km) accident-free, typically involving about a dozen  cars  on the road at any given time, and that they were starting to test with single drivers instead of in pairs. [222]  In late-May 2014, Google revealed a new prototype that had no steering wheel, gas pedal, or brake pedal, and was fully automated . [223]  As of March 2016 [update] , Google had test-driven their fleet in automated mode a total of 1,500,000 mi (2,400,000 km). [224]  In December 2016, Google Corporation announced that its technology would be spun off to a new company called Waymo, with both Google and Waymo becoming subsidiaries of a new parent company called  Alphabet . [225] [226] 
 According to Google's accident reports as of early 2016, their test  cars  had been involved in 14 collisions, of which other drivers were at fault 13 times, although in 2016 the car's software caused a crash. [227] 
 In June 2015, Brin confirmed that 12 vehicles had suffered collisions as of that date. Eight involved rear-end collisions at a stop sign or traffic light, two in which the vehicle was side-swiped by another driver, one in which another driver rolled through a stop sign, and one where a Google employee was controlling the car manually. [228]  In July 2015, three Google employees suffered minor injuries when their vehicle was rear-ended by a car whose driver failed to brake at a traffic light. This was the first time that a collision resulted in injuries. [229]  On 14 February 2016 a Google vehicle attempted to avoid sandbags blocking its path. During the maneuver it struck a bus. Google stated, "In this case, we clearly bear some responsibility, because if our car hadn't moved, there wouldn't have been a collision." [230] [231]  Google characterized the crash as a misunderstanding and a learning experience. No injuries were reported in the crash. [227] 
 
 Uber [ edit ] 
 In March 2017, an Uber test vehicle was involved in a crash in  Tempe, Arizona  when another car failed to yield, flipping the Uber vehicle. There were no injuries in the accident. [232] 
 By 22 December 2017, Uber had completed 2 million miles (3.2 million kilometers) in automated mode. [233] 
 On 18 March 2018,  Elaine Herzberg  became the first pedestrian to be killed by a  self - driving  car in the United States after being hit by an Uber vehicle, also in Tempe. Herzberg was crossing outside of a  crosswalk , approximately 400 feet from an intersection. [234]  This marks the first time an individual outside an auto-piloted car is known to have been killed by such a car.
 The first death of an essentially uninvolved third party is likely to raise new questions and concerns about the safety of automated  cars  in general. [235]  Some experts say a human driver could have avoided the fatal crash. [236]  Arizona Governor  Doug Ducey  later suspended the company's ability to test and operate its automated  cars  on public roadways citing an "unquestionable failure" of the expectation that Uber make public safety its top priority. [237]  Uber has pulled out of all  self - driving -car testing in California as a result of the accident. [238]  On 24 May 2018 the US National Transport Safety Board issued a preliminary report. [239] 
 
 Navya automated bus  driving  system [ edit ] 
 On 9 November 2017, a  Navya  automated  self - driving  bus with passengers was involved in a crash with a truck. The truck was found to be at fault of the crash, reversing into the stationary automated bus. The automated bus did not take evasive actions or apply  defensive  driving  techniques such as flashing its headlights, or sounding the horn. As one passenger commented, "The shuttle didn't have the ability to move back. The shuttle just stayed still." [240] 
 
 Policy implications [ edit ] 
 Urban planning [ edit ] 
 According to a  Wonkblog  reporter, if fully automated  cars  become commercially available, they have the potential to be a  disruptive innovation  with major implications for society. The likelihood of widespread adoption is still unclear, but if they are used on a wide scale, policy makers face a number of unresolved questions about their effects. [181] 
 One fundamental question is about their effect on travel behavior. Some people believe that they will increase car ownership and car use because it will become easier to use them and they will ultimately be more useful. [181]  This may, in turn, encourage urban sprawl and ultimately total private vehicle use. Others argue that it will be easier to share  cars  and that this will thus discourage outright ownership and decrease total usage, and make  cars  more efficient forms of transportation in relation to the present situation. [241] [242] 
 Policy-makers will have to take a new look at how infrastructure is to be built and how money will be allotted to build for automated vehicles. The need for traffic signals could potentially be reduced with the adoption of  smart highways . [243]  Due to smart highways and with the assistance of smart technological advances implemented by policy change, the dependence on  oil imports  may be reduced because of less time being spent on the road by individual  cars  which could have an effect on policy regarding energy. [244]  On the other hand, automated vehicles could increase the overall number of  cars  on the road which could lead to a greater dependence on oil imports if smart systems are not enough to curtail the impact of more vehicles. [245]  However, due to the uncertainty of the future of automated vehicles, policy makers may want to plan effectively by implementing infrastructure improvements that can be beneficial to both human drivers and automated vehicles. [246]  Caution needs to be taken in acknowledgment to  public transportation  and that the use may be greatly reduced if automated vehicles are catered to through policy reform of infrastructure with this resulting in job loss and increased  unemployment . [247] 
 Other disruptive effects will come from the use of automated vehicles to carry goods.  Self - driving  vans have the potential to make home deliveries significantly cheaper, transforming retail commerce and possibly making hypermarkets and supermarkets redundant. As of 2019 [update]  the  US Department of Transportation  defines automation into six levels, starting at level zero which means the human driver does everything and ending with level five, the automated system performs all the  driving  tasks. Also under the current law, manufacturers bear all the responsibility to  self -certify vehicles for use on public roads. This means that currently as long as the vehicle is compliant within the regulatory framework, there are no specific federal legal barriers in the US to a highly automated vehicle being offered for sale.  Iyad Rahwan , an associate professor in the  MIT Media Lab  said, "Most people want to live in a world where  cars  will minimize casualties, but everyone wants their own car to protect them at all costs." Furthermore, industry standards and best practice are still needed in systems before they can be considered reasonably safe under real-world conditions. [248] 
 Researchers have pushed against this arguing that  self - driving   cars  will have a deeply negative impact on urban life especially if they are programmed to kill. Moreover, they require a sensor-based infrastructure that would constitute an all-encompassing surveillance apparatus. [249] 
They would also exasperate existing mobility inequalities [250]  driven by the interests of car companies and technology companies while taking investment away from more equatable and sustainable mobility initiatives such as public transportation.
 
 Legislation [ edit ] 
 The 1968  Vienna Convention on Road Traffic , subscribed to by over 70 countries worldwide, establishes principles to govern traffic laws. One of the fundamental principles of the convention has been the concept that a  driver  is always fully in control and responsible for the behavior of a vehicle in traffic. [251]  The progress of technology that assists and takes over the functions of the driver is undermining this principle, implying that much of the groundwork must be rewritten.
 
 Legal status in the United States [ edit ] 
   US states that allow testing of autonomous vehicles on public roads as of June 2018 [update] 
 In the United States, a non-signatory country to the Vienna Convention, state vehicle codes generally do not envisage—but do not necessarily prohibit—highly automated vehicles as of 2012 [update] . [252] [253]  To clarify the legal status of and otherwise regulate such vehicles, several states have enacted or are considering specific laws. [254]  By 2016, seven states (Nevada, California, Florida, Michigan, Hawaii, Washington, and Tennessee), along with the  District of Columbia , have enacted laws for automated vehicles. Incidents such as the first fatal accident by Tesla's Autopilot system have led to discussion about revising laws and standards for automated  cars .
 In September 2016, the  US National Economic Council  and  US Department of Transportation  released federal standards that describe how automated vehicles should react if their technology fails, how to protect passenger privacy, and how riders should be protected in the event of an accident. The new federal guidelines are meant to avoid a patchwork of state laws, while avoiding being so overbearing as to stifle innovation. [255] 
 In June 2011, the  Nevada Legislature  passed a law to authorize the use of automated  cars . Nevada thus became the first jurisdiction in the world where automated vehicles might be legally operated on public roads. According to the law, the  Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles  is responsible for setting safety and performance standards and the agency is responsible for designating areas where automated  cars  may be tested. [256] [257] [258]  This legislation was supported by  Google  in an effort to legally conduct further testing of its  Google driverless car . [259]  The Nevada law defines an automated vehicle to be "a motor vehicle that uses  artificial intelligence , sensors and  global positioning system  coordinates to drive itself without the active intervention of a human operator". The law also acknowledges that the operator will not need to pay attention while the car is operating itself. Google had further lobbied for an exemption from a ban on distracted  driving  to permit occupants to send  text messages  while sitting behind the wheel, but this did not become law. [259] [260] [261]  Furthermore, Nevada's regulations require a person behind the wheel and one in the passenger's seat during tests. [262] 
 In April 2012, Florida became the second state to allow the testing of automated  cars  on public roads, and California became the third when Governor  Jerry Brown  signed the bill into law at Google Headquarters in  Mountain View . [263] [264]  In December 2013, Michigan became the fourth state to allow testing of driverless  cars  on public roads. [265]  In July 2014, the city of  Coeur d'Alene, Idaho  adopted a robotics ordinance that includes provisions to allow for  self - driving   cars . [266] 
 
   A  Toyota Prius  modified by Google to operate as a driverless car 
 On 19 February 2016,  California Assembly  Bill 2866 was introduced in California that would allow automated vehicles to operate on public roads, including those without a driver, steering wheel, accelerator pedal, or brake pedal. The bill states that the  California Department of Motor Vehicles  would need to comply with these regulations by 1 July 2018 for these rules to take effect. As of November 2016 [update] , this bill has yet to pass the house of origin. [267] 
 In September 2016, the US Department of Transportation released its Federal Automated Vehicles Policy, and California published discussions on the subject in October 2016. [268] [269] 
 In December 2016, the California Department of Motor Vehicles ordered  Uber  to remove its  self - driving  vehicles from the road in response to two red-light violations. Uber immediately blamed the violations on human-error, and has suspended the drivers. [270] 
 
 Legislation in Europe [ edit ] 
 In 2013, the  government of the United Kingdom  permitted the testing of automated  cars  on public roads. [271]  Before this, all testing of robotic vehicles in the UK had been conducted on private property. [271] 
 In 2014, the  Government of France  announced that testing of automated  cars  on public roads would be allowed in 2015. 2000 km of road would be opened through the national territory, especially in Bordeaux, in Isère, Île-de-France and Strasbourg. At the 2015 ITS World Congress, a conference dedicated to intelligent transport systems, the very first demonstration of automated vehicles on open road in France was carried out in Bordeaux in early October 2015. [272] 
 In 2015, a preemptive lawsuit against various automobile companies such as GM, Ford, and Toyota accused them of "Hawking vehicles that are vulnerable to hackers who could hypothetically wrest control of essential functions such as brakes and steering." [273] 
 In spring of 2015, the Federal Department of Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications in Switzerland (UVEK) allowed  Swisscom  to test a driverless  Volkswagen Passat  on the streets of  Zurich . [274] 
 As of April 2017, it is possible to conduct public road tests for development vehicles in  Hungary , furthermore the construction of a closed test track, the ZalaZone test track, [275]  suitable for testing highly automated functions is also under way near the city of  Zalaegerszeg . [276] 
 
 Legislation in Asia [ edit ] 
 In 2016, the Singapore Land Transit Authority in partnership with UK automotive supplier Delphi Automotive, began launch preparations for a test run of a fleet of  automated taxis  for an on-demand automated cab service to take effect in 2017. [277] 
 In 2017, the South Korean government stated that the lack of universal standards is preventing its own legislation from pushing new domestic rules. However, once the international standards are settled, South Korea's legislation will resemble the international standards. [278] 
 
 Liability [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Self - driving  car liability 
 Self - driving  car liability is a developing area of law and policy that will determine who is liable when an automated car causes physical damage to persons, or breaks road rules. [1] [279]  When automated  cars  shift the control of  driving  from humans to automated car technology, there may be a need for existing liability laws to evolve in order to fairly identify the parties responsible for damage and injury, and to address the potential for conflicts of interest between human occupants, system operator, insurers, and the public purse. [132]  Increases in the use of automated car technologies (e.g.  advanced driver-assistance systems ) may prompt incremental shifts in this responsibility for  driving . It is claimed by proponents to have potential to affect the frequency of road accidents, although it is difficult to assess this claim in the absence of data from substantial actual use. [280]  If there was a dramatic improvement in safety, the operators may seek to project their liability for the remaining accidents onto others as part of their reward for the improvement.  However, there is no obvious reason why they should escape liability if any such effects were found to be modest or nonexistent, since part of the purpose of such liability is to give an incentive to the party controlling something to do whatever is necessary to avoid it causing harm. Potential users may be reluctant to trust an operator if it seeks to pass its normal liability on to others.
 In any case, a well-advised person who is not controlling a car at all (Level 5) would be understandably reluctant to accept liability for something out of their control. And when there is some degree of sharing control possible (Level 3 or 4), a well-advised person would be concerned that the vehicle might try to pass back control at the last seconds before an accident, to pass responsibility and liability back too, but in circumstances where the potential driver has no better prospects of avoiding the crash than the vehicle, since they have not necessarily been paying close attention, and if it is too hard for the very smart car it might be too hard for a human. Since operators, especially those familiar with trying to ignore existing legal obligations (under a motto like 'seek forgiveness, not permission'), such as Waymo or Uber, could be normally expected to try to avoid responsibility to the maximum degree possible, there is potential for attempt to let the operators evade being held liable for accidents while they are in control.
 As higher levels of automation are commercially introduced (Level 3 and 4), the insurance industry may see a greater proportion of commercial and product liability lines while personal automobile insurance shrinks. [281] 
 When it comes to the direction of fully autonomous car liability, torts cannot be ignored. In any car accident the issue of negligence usually arises. In the situation of autonomous  cars , negligence would most likely fall on the manufacturer because it would be hard to pin a breach of duty of care on the user who isn't in control of the vehicle. The only time negligence was brought up in an autonomous car lawsuit, there was a settlement between the person struck by the autonomous vehicle and the manufacturer (General Motors). [282]  Next, product liability would most likely cause liability to fall on the manufacturer. For an accident to fall under product liability, there needs to be either a defect, failure to provide adequate warnings, or foreseeability by the manufacturer. [283]  Third, is strict liability which in this case is similar to product liability based on the design defect. Based on a Nevada Supreme Court ruling (Ford vs. Trejo) the plaintiff needs to prove failure of the manufacturer to pass the consumer expectation test. [284]  That is potentially how the three major torts could function when it comes to autonomous car liability.
 
 Vehicle communication systems [ edit ] 
 Main article:  Vehicular communication systems Vehicle networking may be desirable due to difficulty with computer vision being able to recognize brake lights, turn signals, buses, and similar things. However, the usefulness of such systems would be diminished by the fact current  cars  are not equipped with them; they may also pose privacy concerns. [241] 
 Individual vehicles may benefit from information obtained from other vehicles in the vicinity, especially information relating to traffic congestion and safety hazards. Vehicular communication systems use vehicles and roadside units as the communicating  nodes  in a peer-to-peer network, providing each other with information. As a cooperative approach, vehicular communication systems can allow all cooperating vehicles to be more effective. According to a 2010 study by the  US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , vehicular communication systems could help avoid up to 79% of all traffic accidents. [285] 
 There have so far been no complete implementation of peer-to-peer networking on the scale required for traffic: each individual vehicle would have to connect with potentially hundreds of different vehicles that could be going in and out of range. [ citation needed ] 
 In 2012, computer scientists at the University of Texas in Austin began developing smart intersections designed for automated  cars . The intersections will have no traffic lights and no stop signs, instead using computer programs that will communicate directly with each car on the road. [286] 
 In 2017, Researchers from Arizona State University developed a 1/10 scale intersection and proposed an intersection management technique called Crossroads. It was shown that Crossroads is very resilient to network delay of both V2I communication and  Worst-case Execution time  of the intersection manager. [287]  In 2018, a robust approach was introduced which is resilient to both model mismatch and external disturbances such as wind and bumps. [288] 
 Among connected  cars , an unconnected one is the weakest link and will be increasingly banned from busy high-speed roads, as predicted by the  Helsinki  think tank, Nordic Communications Corporation, in January 2016. [289] 
 
 Public opinion surveys [ edit ] 
 This article  may contain an excessive amount of intricate detail that may interest only a particular audience .  Please help by  spinning off  or  relocating  any relevant information, and removing excessive detail that may be against  Wikipedia's inclusion policy .   ( August 2016 )  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) In a 2011 online survey of 2,006 US and UK consumers by  Accenture , 49% said they would be comfortable using a "driverless car". [290] 
 A 2012 survey of 17,400 vehicle owners by  J.D. Power and Associates  found 37% initially said they would be interested in purchasing a "fully autonomous car". However, that figure dropped to 20% if told the technology would cost US$3,000 more. [291] 
 In a 2012 survey of about 1,000 German drivers by automotive researcher Puls, 22% of the respondents had a positive attitude towards these  cars , 10% were undecided, 44% were skeptical and 24% were hostile. [292] 
 A 2013 survey of 1,500 consumers across 10 countries by  Cisco Systems  found 57% "stated they would be likely to ride in a car controlled entirely by technology that does not require a human driver", with Brazil, India and China the most willing to trust automated technology. [293] 
 In a 2014 US telephone survey by  Insurance.com , over three-quarters of licensed drivers said they would at least consider buying a  self - driving  car, rising to 86% if car insurance were cheaper. 31.7% said they would not continue to drive once an automated car was available instead. [294] 
 In a February 2015 survey of top auto journalists, 46% predict that either Tesla or Daimler will be the first to the market with a fully autonomous vehicle, while (at 38%) Daimler is predicted to be the most functional, safe, and in-demand autonomous vehicle. [295] 
 In 2015 a questionnaire survey by Delft University of Technology explored the opinion of 5,000 people from 109 countries on automated  driving . Results showed that respondents, on average, found manual  driving  the most enjoyable mode of  driving . 22% of the respondents did not want to spend any money for a fully automated  driving  system. Respondents were found to be most concerned about software hacking/misuse, and were also concerned about legal issues and safety. Finally, respondents from more developed countries (in terms of lower accident statistics, higher education, and higher income) were less comfortable with their vehicle transmitting data. [296]  The survey also gave results on potential consumer opinion on interest of purchasing an automated car, stating that 37% of surveyed current owners were either "definitely" or "probably" interested in purchasing an automated car. [296] 
 In 2016, a survey in Germany examined the opinion of 1,603 people, who were representative in terms of age, gender, and education for the German population, towards partially, highly, and fully automated  cars . Results showed that men and women differ in their willingness to use them. Men felt less anxiety and more joy towards automated  cars , whereas women showed the exact opposite. The gender difference towards anxiety was especially pronounced between young men and women but decreased with participants' age. [297] 
 In 2016, a  PwC  survey, in the United States, showing the opinion of 1,584 people, highlights that "66 percent of respondents said they think autonomous  cars  are probably smarter than the average human driver". People are still worried about safety and mostly the fact of having the car hacked. Nevertheless, only 13% of the interviewees see no advantages in this new kind of  cars . [298] 
 A Pew Research Center survey of 4,135 US adults conducted 1–15 May 2017 finds that many Americans anticipate significant impacts from various automation technologies in the course of their lifetimes—from the widespread adoption of automated vehicles to the replacement of entire job categories with robot workers. [299] 
 Results from two opinion surveys of 54 and 187 US adults respectively were published in 2019. A new standardised questionnaire, the autonomous vehicle acceptance model (AVAM) was developed, including additional description to help respondents better understand the implications of different automation levels. Results showed that users were less accepting of high autonomy levels and displayed significantly lower intention to use highly autonomous vehicles. Additionally, partial autonomy (regardless of level) was perceived as requiring uniformly higher driver engagement (usage of hands, feet and eyes) than full autonomy. [300] 
 
 Moral issues [ edit ] 
 See also:  Machine ethics 
 This section's  tone or style may not reflect the  encyclopedic tone  used on Wikipedia .  See Wikipedia's  guide to writing better articles  for suggestions.   ( February 2019 )  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) 
 With the emergence of automated automobiles, various ethical issues arise. While the introduction of automated vehicles to the mass market is said to be inevitable due to a presumed but untestable potential for reduction of crashes by "up to" 90% [301]  and their potential greater accessibility to disabled, elderly, and young passengers, a range of ethical issues have not been fully addressed. Those include, but are not limited to: the moral, financial, and criminal responsibility for crashes and breaches of law; the decisions a car is to make right before a (fatal) crash; privacy issues including potential for mass surveillance; potential for massive job losses and unemployment among drivers; de-skilling and loss of independence by vehicle users; exposure to hacking and malware; and the further concentration of market and data power in the hands of a few global conglomerates capable of consolidating AI capacity, and of lobbying governments to facilitate the shift of liability onto others and their potential destruction of existing occupations and industries.
 There are different opinions on who should be held liable in case of a crash, especially with people being hurt. Many experts see the car manufacturers themselves responsible for those crashes that occur due to a technical malfunction or misconstruction. [302]  Besides the fact that the car manufacturer would be the source of the problem in a situation where a car crashes due to a technical issue, there is another important reason why car manufacturers could be held responsible: it would encourage them to innovate and heavily invest into fixing those issues, not only due to protection of the brand image, but also due to financial and criminal consequences. However, there are also voices [ who? ]  that argue those using or owning the vehicle should be held responsible since they know the risks involved in using such a vehicle. Experts [ who? ]  suggest introducing a tax or insurances that would protect owners and users of automated vehicles of claims made by victims of an accident. [302]  Other possible parties that can be held responsible in case of a technical failure include  software engineers  that programmed the code for the automated operation of the vehicles, and suppliers of components of the AV. [303] 
 Taking aside the question of legal liability and moral responsibility, the question arises how automated vehicles should be programmed to behave in an emergency situation where either passengers or other traffic participants like: pedestrians, bicyclists and other drivers are endangered. A moral dilemma that a software engineer or car manufacturer might face in programming the operating software is described in an ethical thought experiment, the trolley problem: a conductor of a trolley has the choice of staying on the planned track and running over five people, or turn the trolley onto a track where it would kill only one person, assuming there is no traffic on it. [304]  When a  self - driving  car is in following scenario: it's  driving  with passengers and suddenly a person appears in its way. The car has to decide between the two options, either to run the person over or to avoid hitting the person by swerving into a wall, killing the passengers. [305]  There are two main considerations that need to be addressed. First, what moral basis would be used by an automated vehicle to make decisions? Second, how could those be translated into software code? Researchers have suggested, in particular, two ethical theories to be applicable to the behavior of automated vehicles in cases of emergency:  deontology  and  utilitarianism . [7] [306]  Asimov's  Three Laws of Robotics  are a typical example of deontological ethics. The theory suggests that an automated car needs to follow strict written-out rules that it needs to follow in any situation. Utilitarianism suggests the idea that any decision must be made based on the goal to maximize utility. This needs a definition of utility which could be maximizing the number of people surviving in a crash. Critics suggest that automated vehicles should adapt a mix of multiple theories to be able to respond morally right in the instance of a crash. [7] [306]  Recently, some specific ethical frameworks i.e., utilitarianism, deontology, relativism, absolutism (monism), and pluralism, are investigated empirically with respect to the acceptance of  self - driving   cars  in unavoidable accidents. [307] 
 Many 'trolley' discussions skip over the practical problems of how a probabilistic machine learning vehicle AI could be sophisticated enough to understand that a deep problem of moral philosophy is presenting itself from instant to instant while using a dynamic projection into the near future, what sort of moral problem it actually would be if any, what the relevant weightings in human value terms should be given to all the other humans involved who will be probably unreliably identified, and how reliably it can assess the probable outcomes. These practical difficulties, and those around testing and assessment of solutions to them, may present as much of a challenge as the theoretical abstractions. [ citation needed ] 
 While most trolley conundrums involve hyperbolic and unlikely fact patterns, it is inevitable mundane ethical decisions and risk calculations such as the precise millisecond a car should yield to a yellow light or how closely to drive to a bike lane will need to be programmed into the software of autonomous vehicles. [7] [308]  Algorithms dictate, for example, how closely to drive to a bike lane or the precise moment an autonomous car should yield to a yellow light. [7] [308]  Mundane ethical situations may even be more relevant than rare fatal circumstances because of the specificity implicated and their large scope. [308]  Mundane situations involving drivers and pedestrians are so prevalent that, in the aggregate, produce large amounts of injuries and deaths. [308]  Hence, even incremental permutations of moral algorithms can have a notable effect when considered in their entirety. [308] 
 Privacy-related issues arise mainly from the interconnectivity of automated  cars , making it just another mobile device that can gather any information about an individual. This information gathering ranges from tracking of the routes taken, voice recording, video recording, preferences in media that is consumed in the car, behavioral patterns, to many more streams of information. [241] [309] [310]  The data and communications infrastructure needed to support these vehicles may also be capable of surveillance, especially if coupled to other data sets and advanced analytics. [241] 
 The implementation of automated vehicles to the mass market might cost up to 5 million jobs in the US alone, making up almost 3% of the workforce. [311]  Those jobs include drivers of taxis, buses, vans, trucks, and e-hailing vehicles. Many industries, such as the auto insurance industry are indirectly affected. This industry alone generates an annual revenue of about US$220 billion, supporting 277,000 jobs. [312]  To put this into perspective–this is about the number of mechanical engineering jobs. [313]  The potential loss of a majority of those jobs will have a tremendous impact on those individuals involved. [314]  Both India and China have placed bans on automated  cars  with the former citing protection of jobs. [ citation needed ] 
 The  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  (MIT) has animated the trolley problem in the context of autonomous  cars  in a website called The Moral Machine. [315]  The Moral Machine generates random scenarios in which autonomous  cars  malfunction and forces the user to choose between two harmful courses of action. [315]  MIT's Moral Machine experiment has collected data involving over 40 million decisions from people in 233 countries to ascertain peoples' moral preferences.  The MIT study illuminates that ethical preferences vary among cultures and demographics and likely correlate with modern institutions and geographic traits. [315] 
 Global trends of the MIT study highlight that, overall, people prefer to save the lives of humans over other animals, prioritize the lives of many rather than few, and spare the lives of young rather than old. [315]  Men are slightly more likely to spare the lives of women, and religious affiliates are slightly more likely to prioritize human life.  The lives of criminals were prioritized more than cats, but the lives of dogs were prioritized more than the lives of criminals. [316]  The lives of homeless were spared more than the elderly, but the lives of homeless were spared less often than the obese. [316] 
 People overwhelmingly express a preference for autonomous vehicles to be programmed with utilitarian ideas, that is, in a manner that generates the least harm and minimizes  driving  casualties. [317]  While people want others to purchase utilitarian promoting vehicles, they themselves prefer to ride in vehicles that prioritize the lives of people inside the vehicle at all costs. [317]  This presents a paradox in which people prefer that others drive utilitarian vehicles designed to maximize the lives preserved in a fatal situation but want to ride in  cars  that prioritize the safety of passengers at all costs. [317]  People disapprove of regulations that promote utilitarian views and would be less willing to purchase a  self - driving  car that may opt to promote the greatest good at the expense of its passengers. [317] 
 Bonnefon et al. conclude that the regulation of autonomous vehicle ethical prescriptions may be counterproductive to societal safety. [317]  This is because, if the government mandates utilitarian ethics and people prefer to ride in  self -protective  cars , it could prevent the large scale implementation of  self - driving   cars . [317]  Delaying the adoption of autonomous  cars  vitiates the safety of society as a whole because this technology is projected to save so many lives. [317]  This is a paradigmatic example of the tragedy of the commons in which rational actors cater to their  self -interested preferences at the expense of societal utility. [318] 
 
 Anticipated launch of  cars [ edit ] 
 See also:  Lane centering § Sample of level 2 automated  cars 
 In December 2015,  Tesla  CEO  Elon Musk  predicted that a completely automated car would be introduced by the end of 2018; [319]  in December 2017, he announced that it would take another two years to launch a fully  self - driving  Tesla onto the market. [320] 
 Waymo  launched a ride hailing service in Phoenix in December, 2018.  Drive.ai  is doing a trial run in Frisco, Texas and Arlington Texas. [ citation needed ] 
 In March 2019, ahead of the autonomous racing series  Roborace , Robocar set the  Guinness World Record  for being the fastest autonomous car in the world. In pushing the limits of  self - driving  vehicles, Robocar reached 282.42 kph (175.49 mph) – an average confirmed by the UK Timing Association at Elvington in Yorkshire, UK.  [321] 
 
 In fiction [ edit ] 
 This section  gives  self -sourcing popular culture examples  without describing their significance in the context of the article.  Please help  improve this section  by  adding citations to reliable sources  that describe the examples' significance, and by removing less pertinent examples.  Unsourced  or poorly sourced material may be challenged or removed.   ( February 2018 )  ( Learn how and when to remove this template message ) 
   Minority Report's   Lexus 2054  on display in  Paris  in October 2002 
 In film [ edit ] 
 The automated and occasionally sentient  self - driving  car story has earned its place in both literary science fiction and pop sci-fi. [322] 
 
 A  VW Beetle  named  Dudu  [ de ]  features in the 1971 to 1978 German  Superbug film series , similar to  Disney 's  Herbie , but with an electronic brain. (Herbie, also a Beetle, was instead depicted as an  anthropomorphic  car with its own spirit.) 
 In the film  Batman  (1989), starring  Michael Keaton , the  Batmobile  is shown to be able to drive to  Batman 's current location with some navigation commands from Batman and possibly some automation. In the 1992 sequel  Batman Returns  the Batmobile's  self - driving  system is hijacked by  The Penguin , who wreaks havoc through the city to frame Batman until Bruce undoes the sabotage. 
 The film  Total Recall  (1990), starring  Arnold Schwarzenegger , features  taxis  called  Johnny Cabs  controlled by artificial intelligence in the shape of an  android  bust, while still possessing a joystick for manual control. 
 The film  Knight Rider 2000  (1991) features a sentient and autonomous car called  KITT . 
 The film  Jurassic Park  (1993) has automatic tour vehicles which travel along a track. The  cars  later become stuck after the power goes out and one of them get attacked by a T-Rex, who pushes it into a tree. 
 The film  Demolition Man  (1993), starring  Sylvester Stallone  and set in 2032, features vehicles that can be  self -driven or commanded to "Auto Mode" where a voice-controlled computer operates the vehicle. 
 The film  Timecop  (1994), starring  Jean-Claude Van Damme , set in 2004 and 1994, has automated  cars . 
 The film  Inspector Gadget  (1999) features a  self - driving  car called the Gadgetmobile controlled by a comedic A.I. It also appears in the sequel  Inspector Gadget 2  (2003). 
 Another Arnold Schwarzenegger movie,  The 6th Day  (2000), features an automated car commanded by  Michael Rapaport . 
 The film  Minority Report  (2002), set in Washington, DC in 2054, features an extended chase sequence involving automated  cars . The vehicle of protagonist John Anderton is transporting him when its systems are overridden by police in an attempt to bring him into  custody . 
 The film  Looney Tunes: Back in Action  (2003) features a spy car that can drive itself. 
 The film  The Incredibles  (2004),  Mr. Incredible  makes his car (later revealed to be called the Incredibile) automated while it changes him into his supersuit when  driving  to catch up to a car of robbers on the run. The car reappears in the sequel  Incredibles 2  (2018) where it is used by Dash and Violet Parr to escape from brainwashed superheroes controlled by the villain Screenslaver and to board Winston Deavor's ship. 
   I, Robot's   Audi RSQ  at the  CeBIT  expo in March 2005 
 The film  I, Robot  (2004), set in  Chicago  in 2035, features automated vehicles  driving  on highways, allowing the car to travel safer at higher speeds than if manually controlled. The option to manually operate the vehicles is available. 
 In the film  Eagle Eye  (2008)  Shia LaBeouf  and  Michelle Monaghan  are driven around in a  Porsche Cayenne  that is controlled by ARIIA (a giant supercomputer). 
 In the film  Captain America: The Winter Soldier  (2014),  Nick Fury 's SUV is capable of  driving  on its own. 
 The film  Hot Tub Time Machine 2  (2015) features automated  cars  that appear ten years in the future from the film's present time. One car targets Lou Dorchen after he insults it and it later helps the main characters return to the hot tub time machine after Lou apologizes to it for his insults. 
 In the CGI animated short film  You Are Not Alone  (2016), which is set in 2058, an automated car helps the main protagonist reach the surface to find her sister. The car later sacrifices itself to help the protagonist escape from the pursuing authorities. 
 Geostorm  (2017), set in 2022, features a  self - driving  taxi stolen by protagonists Max Lawson and Sarah Wilson to protect the President from mercenaries and a superstorm. 
 The film  Logan  (2017), set in 2029, features fully automated trucks. 
 Blade Runner 2049  (2017) opens with  LAPD   Replicant  cop K waking up in his modern  Spinner  (a  flying police car , now featuring automatic driver and separable surveillance roof drone) on approach to a protein farm in northern California. 
 Upgrade  (2018), set in a not too distant future, highlights the hazardous side to automated  cars  as their  driving  systems can get hijacked and imperil the passengers. 
 In  Child's Play  (2019)  Chucky  hijacks a  self - driving  "Kaslan Car" for the murder of Mike's mother, making it crash into normal  cars  at a department store's parking lot. 
 In the film  Spies in Disguise  (2019), Lance Sterling's car is capable of  driving  autonomously. 
 In literature [ edit ] 
 Intelligent or  self - driving   cars  are a common theme in  science fiction  literature. Examples include:
 
 In  Isaac Asimov 's science-fiction short story, " Sally " (first published May–June 1953), automated  cars  have " positronic brains " and communicate via honking horns and slamming doors, and save their human caretaker. Due to the high cost of the brain, few can afford a personal vehicle, so buses have become the norm. 
 Peter F. Hamilton 's  Commonwealth Saga  series features intelligent or  self - driving  vehicles. 
 In  Robert A Heinlein 's novel,  The Number of the Beast  (1980), Zeb Carter's  driving  and flying car "Gay Deceiver" is at first semi-automated and later, after modifications by Zeb's wife Deety, becomes sentient and capable of fully autonomous operation. 
 In  Edizioni Piemme 's series  Geronimo Stilton , a robotic vehicle called "Solar" is in the 54th book. 
 Alastair Reynolds ' series,  Revelation Space , features intelligent or  self - driving  vehicles. 
 In  Daniel Suarez ' novels  Daemon  (2006) and  Freedom™  (2010) driverless  cars  and motorcycles are used for attacks in a software-based  open-source warfare . The vehicles are modified for this using  3D printers  and  distributed manufacturing [323]  and are also able to operate as  swarms . 
 In television [ edit ] 
 "Gone in 60 Seconds", season 2, episode 6 of 2015 TV series  CSI: Cyber  features three seemingly normal customized vehicles, a 2009  Nissan Fairlady Z  Roadster, a  BMW M3  E90 and a  Cadillac CTS-V , and one stock luxury  BMW 7 Series , being remote-controlled by a computer hacker. 
 " Handicar ", season 18, episode 4 of 2014 TV series  South Park  features a Japanese automated car that takes part in the  Wacky Races -style car race. 
 KITT  and  KARR , the  Pontiac Firebird Trans-Ams  in the 1982 TV series  Knight Rider , were sentient and autonomous. The KITT and KARR based  Ford Mustangs  from  Knight Rider  were also sentient and autonomous, like their Firebird counterparts. 
 "Driven", series 4, episode 11 of the 2003 TV series  NCIS  features a robotic vehicle named "Otto", part of a high-level project of the Department of Defense, which causes the death of a Navy Lieutenant, and then later almost kills Abby. 
 The TV series  Viper  features a silver/grey armored assault vehicle, called  The Defender , which masquerades as a flame-red 1992  Dodge Viper  RT/10 and later as a 1998 cobalt blue  Dodge Viper GTS . The vehicle's sophisticated computer systems allow it to be controlled via remote on some occasions. 
 The animated TV series  Blaze and the Monster Machines  has various  self   driving /autonomous  cars  and trucks. 
 Black Mirror  episode " Hated in the Nation " briefly features a  self - driving  SUV with a touchscreen interface on the inside. 
 Bull  has a show discussing the effectiveness and safety of  self - driving   cars  in an episode call E.J. [324] 
 "Rescue Bot Academy", season 3, episode 19 of  Transformers: Rescue Bots , Chief Burns tells Jerry that the Autobot Blurr (whom Jerry had seen crash into a statue and discovered that there was no driver) is a  self - driving  car made by Doc Greene to prevent Blurr's secret from being revealed. 
 In  Mickey Mouse Mixed-Up Adventures , two  self - driving  vehicles are featured in the episodes  Mouse vs Machine  and  Super-Charged: Mickey's Monster Rally : a hi-tech car called S.R.R. ( Self -Racing Roadster) and a  self - driving  monster truck, which is actually Pete's Roadster, the  Super Crusher , transformed by a ray gun called the Strengthenator. 
 In  SpongeBob SquarePants , a  self - driving  boatmobile named Coupe appears in the episode "Drive Happy". 
 In  Stroker and Hoop , a  self - driving  car named CARR (the acronym's meaning is unknown) appears throughout the series. 
 In  Lab Rats , a  self - driving  car appears in the episode "Speed Trapped". 
 In  Team Knight Rider , which is a spin-off of  Knight Rider , seven autonomous vehicles appear in the series. 
 In  House of Mouse , a  self - driving  car appears in the episode "Max's New Car" and in the  Mickey Mouse Works  cartoon "Mickey's New Car", which was featured in the episode itself. 
 In  Kim Possible , a  self - driving  car called SADI (Systemized Automotive  Driving  Intelligence) appears in the episode "Car Trouble". 
 In "Driven to the Brink", season 2, episode 25 of  The Penguins of Madagascar , after Rico wrecks and repairs the penguins' car, he unknowingly installs one of Kowalski's latest inventions, the "Neurotronic laser targeting system", into it. This allows the car to drive itself but also causes it to go rogue and chase down Rico. It was eventually destroyed and rebuilt a second time, reverting it back to an ordinary car. 
 See also [ edit ] 
 
 Automated guideway transit 
 Automatic train operation 
 Automobile safety 
 Automotive navigation system 
 Autopilot 
 Autotech 
 Advanced Driver Assistance Systems 
 Connected car 
 DARPA Grand Challenge :  2004 ,  2007 
 DARPA Robotics Challenge  (2012) 
 Dutch Automated Vehicle Initiative 
 Death by GPS 
 Driverless tractor 
 Hybrid navigation 
 Intelligent transportation system 
 Mobility as a service (transport) 
 Personal rapid transit 
 Platoon (automobile) 
 Retrofitting 
 Technological unemployment 
 Unmanned ground vehicle 
 Unmanned aerial vehicle 
 Vehicle infrastructure integration 
 Vision processing unit 
 Measurement of Assured Clear Distance Ahead 
 Electronic stability control 
 Precrash system 
 
 References [ edit ] 
 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h   Taeihagh, Araz; Lim, Hazel Si Min (2 January 2019). "Governing autonomous vehicles: emerging responses for safety, liability, privacy, cybersecurity, and industry risks".  Transport Reviews .  39  (1): 103–128.  arXiv : 1807.05720 .  doi : 10.1080/01441647.2018.1494640 .  ISSN   0144-1647 . 
 
 ^   Maki, Sydney; Sage, Alexandria (19 March 2018).  " Self - driving  Uber car kills Arizona woman crossing street" .  Reuters . Retrieved  14 April  2019 . 
 
 ^   Thrun, Sebastian (2010). "Toward Robotic  Cars ".  Communications of the ACM .  53  (4): 99–106.  doi : 10.1145/1721654.1721679 . 
 
 ^   Gehrig, Stefan K.; Stein, Fridtjof J. (1999).  Dead reckoning and cartography using stereo vision for an automated car . IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems.  3 . Kyongju. pp. 1507–1512.  doi : 10.1109/IROS.1999.811692 .  ISBN   0-7803-5184-3 . 
 
 ^   Lassa, Todd (January 2013).  "The Beginning of the End of  Driving " .  Motor Trend . Retrieved  1 September  2014 . 
 
 ^   "European Roadmap Smart Systems for Automated  Driving "   (PDF) .  EPoSS . 2015. Archived from  the original   (PDF)  on 12 February 2015. 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   e   f   g   Lim, Hazel Si Min; Taeihagh, Araz (2019). "Algorithmic Decision-Making in AVs: Understanding Ethical and Technical Concerns for Smart Cities".  Sustainability .  11  (20): 5791.  arXiv : 1910.13122 .  Bibcode : 2019arXiv191013122L .  doi : 10.3390/su11205791 . 
 
 ^   " Self - driving  trucks are here – here's how they will transform the trucking industry"   (Video) .  CNBC  Videos. 13 April 2019 . Retrieved  14 April  2019  – via  Yahoo . 
 
 ^   " ' Phantom Auto' will tour city" .  The Milwaukee Sentinel . 8 December 1926 . Retrieved  23 July  2013 . 
 
 ^   Vanderblit, Tom (6 February 2012).  "Autonomous  Cars  Through The Ages" .  Wired . Retrieved  26 July  2018 . 
 
 ^   Marc Weber (8 May 2014).  "Where to? A History of Autonomous Vehicles" .  Computer History Museum . Retrieved  26 July  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Carnegie Mellon" .  Navlab: The Carnegie Mellon University Navigation Laboratory . The Robotics Institute . Retrieved  20 December  2014 . 
 
 ^   Kanade, Takeo (February 1986).  Autonomous land vehicle project at CMU .  CSC '86 Proceedings of the 1986 ACM Fourteenth Annual Conference on Computer Science . Csc '86. pp. 71–80.  doi : 10.1145/324634.325197 .  ISBN   9780897911771 . 
 
 ^   Wallace, Richard (1985).  "First results in robot road-following"   (PDF) .  JCAI'85 Proceedings of the 9th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence . Archived from  the original   (PDF)  on 6 August 2014. 
 
 ^  a   b   Schmidhuber, Jürgen (2009).  "Prof. Schmidhuber's highlights of robot car history" . Retrieved  15 July  2011 . 
 
 ^   Turk, M.A.; Morgenthaler, D.G.; Gremban, K.D.; Marra, M. (May 1988). "VITS-a vision system for automated land vehicle navigation".  IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence .  10  (3): 342–361.  doi : 10.1109/34.3899 .  ISSN   0162-8828 . 
 
 ^   University, Carnegie Mellon.  "Look, Ma, No Hands-CMU News - Carnegie Mellon University" .  cmu.edu . Retrieved  2 March  2017 . 
 
 ^   "Navlab 5 Details" .  cs.cmu.edu . Retrieved  2 March  2017 . 
 
 ^   Crowe, Steve (3 April 2015).  "Back to the Future: Autonomous  Driving  in 1995 - Robotics Trends" .  roboticstrends.com . Retrieved  2 March  2017 . 
 
 ^   "NHAA Journal" .  cs.cmu.edu . Retrieved  5 March  2017 . 
 
 ^   Council, National Research (2002).  Technology Development for Army Unmanned Ground Vehicles .  doi : 10.17226/10592 .  ISBN   9780309086202 . 
 
 ^   Ackerman, Evan (25 January 2013).  "Video Friday: Bosch and  Cars , ROVs and Whales, and Kuka Arms and Chainsaws" .  IEEE Spectrum . Retrieved  26 February  2013 . 
 
 ^   "Audi of America / news / Pool / Reaffirmed Mission for Autonomous Audi TTS Pikes Peak" . AudiUSA.com. Archived from  the original  on 10 July 2012 . Retrieved  28 April  2012 . 
 
 ^   "Nissan car drives and parks itself at Ceatec" . BBC. 4 October 2012 . Retrieved  4 January  2013 . 
 
 ^   "Toyota sneak previews  self -drive car ahead of tech show" . BBC. 4 January 2013 . Retrieved  4 January  2013 . 
 
 ^   Rosen, Rebecca (9 August 2012).  "Google's  Self - Driving   Cars : 300,000 Miles Logged, Not a Single Accident Under Computer Control" .  The Atlantic . Retrieved  10 August  2012 . 
 
 ^   "Vislab, University of Parma, Italy – 8000 miles driverless test begins" . Archived from  the original  on 14 November 2013 . Retrieved  27 October  2013 . 
 
 ^   "VisLab Intercontinental Autonomous Challenge: Inaugural Ceremony – Milan, Italy" . Retrieved  27 October  2013 . 
 
 ^   Selyukh, Alina.  "A 24-Year-Old Designed A  Self - Driving  Minibus; Maker Built It in Weeks" .  All Tech Considered . NPR . Retrieved  21 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   Novak, Matt.  "The National Automated Highway System That Almost Was" .  Smithsonian . Retrieved  8 June  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Back to the Future: Autonomous  Driving  in 1995 – Robotics Business Review" .  Robotics Business Review . 3 April 2015 . Retrieved  8 June  2018 . 
 
 ^   "This Is Big: A Robo-Car Just Drove Across the Country" .  WIRED . Retrieved  8 June  2018 . 
 
 ^   Ramsey, John (1 June 2015).  " Self - driving   cars  to be tested on Virginia highways" .  Richmond Times-Dispatch . Retrieved  4 June  2015 . 
 
 ^   Meyer, Gereon (2018).  European Roadmaps, Programs, and Projects for Innovation in Connected and Automated Road Transport. In: G. Meyer, S. Beiker, Road Vehicle Automation 5. Springer 2018 .  doi : 10.1007/978-3-319-94896-6_3 . 
 
 ^   European Commission (2019).  STRIA Roadmap Connected and Automated Transport: Road, Rail and Waterborne   (PDF) . 
 
 ^   McAleer, Michael (11 July 2017).  "Audi's  self - driving  A8: drivers can watch YouTube or check emails at 60km/h" .  The Irish Times . Retrieved  11 July  2017 . 
 
 ^   Hawkins, Andrew J. (7 November 2017).  "Waymo is first to put fully  self - driving   cars  on US roads without a safety driver" .  theverge.com . Retrieved  7 November  2017 . 
 
 ^   "Early rider program - FAQ – Early Rider Program – Waymo" .  Waymo . Retrieved  30 November  2018 . 
 
 ^   "On the Road – Waymo" .  Waymo . Archived from  the original  on 23 March 2018 . Retrieved  27 July  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Waymo launches nation's first commercial  self - driving  taxi service in Arizona" .  Washington Post . Retrieved  6 December  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Autonomous Vehicles" .  Smart Nation Singapore . 2 May 2019 . Retrieved  31 August  2019 . 
 
 ^   Umar Zakir Abdul, Hamid;  et al. (2019).  "Current Landscape of the Automotive Field in the ASEAN Region: Case Study of Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia - A Brief Overview" .  ASEAN Journal of Automotive Technology .  1  (1) . Retrieved  5 October  2019 . 
 
 ^   "Tesla Crash Investigation Yields 9 NTSB Safety Recommendations"  (Press release). National Transportation Safety Board. 25 February 2020 . Retrieved  28 July  2020 . 
 
 ^   Leggett, Theo (22 May 2018).  "Who is to blame for ' self - driving  car' deaths?" .  BBC News  – via BBC. 
 
 ^   Cellan-Jones, Rory (12 June 2018).  "Insurers warning on 'autonomous'  cars " .  BBC News  – via BBC. 
 
 ^  a   b   Antsaklis, Panos J.; Passino, Kevin M.; Wang, S.J. (1991).  "An Introduction to Autonomous Control Systems"   (PDF) .  IEEE Control Systems Magazine .  11  (4): 5–13.  CiteSeerX   10.1.1.840.976 .  doi : 10.1109/37.88585 . Archived from  the original   (PDF)  on 16 May 2017 . Retrieved  21 January  2019 . 
 
 ^   Wood, S. P.; Chang, J.; Healy, T.; Wood, J.  "The potential regulatory challenges of increasingly autonomous motor vehicles" .  52nd Santa Clara Law Review .  4  (9): 1423–1502. 
 
 ^   "Autonomous Emergency Braking – Euro NCAP" .  euroncap.com . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 
 
 ^   " self - driving  car Definition from PC Magazine Encyclopedia" .  pcmag.com . 
 
 ^   " Self - Driving   Cars  Explained" .  Union of Concerned Scientists . 
 
 ^   "Support – Autopilot" .  Tesla .  Archived  from the original on 10 April 2019 . Retrieved  6 September  2019 . 
 
 ^   "AdaptIVe system classification and glossary on Automated  driving "   (PDF) . Archived from  the original   (PDF)  on 7 October 2017 . Retrieved  11 September  2017 . 
 
 ^   "AUTOMATED  DRIVING  LEVELS OF  DRIVING  AUTOMATION ARE DEFINED IN NEW SAE INTERNATIONAL STANDARD J3016"   (PDF) . 2017. Archived from  the original   (PDF)  on 20 November 2016. 
 
 ^   "U.S. Department of Transportation Releases Policy on Automated Vehicle Development" .  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration . 30 May 2013 . Retrieved  18 December  2013 . 
 
 ^   SAE International 
 
 ^  a   b   "Automated  Driving  – Levels of  Driving  Automation are Defined in New SAE International Standard J3016"   (PDF) .  SAE International . 2014.  Archived   (PDF)  from the original on 1 July 2018. 
 
 ^   "SAE  Self - Driving  Levels 0 to 5 for Automation - What They Mean" . 23 January 2020. 
 
 ^   "Traffic Jam Chauffeur: Autonomous  driving  in traffic jams" . 28 August 2016. 
 
 ^   Hancock, P. A.; Nourbakhsh, Illah; Stewart, Jack (16 April 2019).  "On the future of transportation in an era of automated and autonomous vehicles" .  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America .  116  (16): 7684–7691.  doi : 10.1073/pnas.1805770115 .  ISSN   0027-8424 .  PMC   6475395 .  PMID   30642956 . 
 
 ^   Zhao, Jianfeng; Liang, Bodong; Chen, Qiuxia (2 January 2018).  "The key technology toward the  self - driving  car" .  International Journal of Intelligent Unmanned Systems .  6  (1): 2–20.  doi : 10.1108/IJIUS-08-2017-0008 .  ISSN   2049-6427 . 
 
 ^   Zhu, Wentao; Miao, Jun; Hu, Jiangbi; Qing, Laiyun (27 March 2014). "Vehicle detection in  driving  simulation using extreme learning machine".  Neurocomputing .  128 : 160–165.  doi : 10.1016/j.neucom.2013.05.052 . 
 
 ^   Durrant-Whyte, H.; Bailey, T. (5 June 2006). "Simultaneous localization and mapping".  IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine .  13  (2): 99–110.  CiteSeerX   10.1.1.135.9810 .  doi : 10.1109/mra.2006.1638022 .  ISSN   1070-9932 . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   Huval, Brody; Wang, Tao; Tandon, Sameep; Kiske, Jeff; Song, Will; Pazhayampallil, Joel (2015). "An Empirical Evaluation of Deep Learning on Highway  Driving ".  arXiv : 1504.01716  [ cs.RO ]. 
 
 ^   Peter Corke, Jorge Lobo, Jorge Dias (1 June 2007). "An Introduction to Inertial and Visual Sensing".  The International Journal of Robotics Research .  26  (6): 519–535.  CiteSeerX   10.1.1.93.5523 .  doi : 10.1177/0278364907079279 . CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list ( link ) 
 
 ^   "How  Self - Driving   Cars  Work" . 14 December 2017 . Retrieved  18 April  2018 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Schmidhuber, Jürgen (January 2015). "Deep learning in neural networks: An overview".  Neural Networks .  61 : 85–117.  arXiv : 1404.7828 .  doi : 10.1016/j.neunet.2014.09.003 .  PMID   25462637 . 
 
 ^   Hawkins, Andrew J. (13 May 2018).  "MIT built a  self - driving  car that can navigate unmapped country roads" .  theverge.com . Retrieved  14 May  2018 . 
 
 ^   Connor-Simons, Adam; Gordon, Rachel (7 May 2018).  " Self - driving   cars  for country roads: Today's automated vehicles require hand-labeled 3-D maps, but CSAIL's MapLite system enables navigation with just GPS and sensors" . Retrieved  14 May  2018 . 
 
 ^   Reuters, Thomson,  No lights, no signs, no accidents - future intersections for... , retrieved  26 November  2018 
 
 ^   "What's big, orange and covered in LEDs? This start-up's new approach to  self - driving   cars " .  NBC News . 
 
 ^   Gold, Christian; Körber, Moritz; Hohenberger, Christoph; Lechner, David; Bengler, Klaus (1 January 2015).  "Trust in Automation – Before and After the Experience of Take-over Scenarios in a Highly Automated Vehicle" .  Procedia Manufacturing .  3 : 3025–3032.  doi : 10.1016/j.promfg.2015.07.847 .  ISSN   2351-9789 . 
 
 ^   "Survey Data Suggests  Self - Driving   Cars  Could Be Slow To Gain Consumer Trust" .  GM Authority . Retrieved  3 September  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Remembering When Driverless Elevators Drew Skepticism" .  NPR.org . 
 
 ^   "Episode 642: The Big Red Button" .  NPR.org . 
 
 ^   "Mcity testing center" .  University of Michigan . 8 December 2016 . Retrieved  13 February  2017 . 
 
 ^   "Adopted Regulations for Testing of Autonomous Vehicles by Manufacturers" .  DMV . 18 June 2016 . Retrieved  13 February  2017 . 
 
 ^   "The Pathway to Driverless  Cars : A Code of Practice for testing" . 19 July 2015 . Retrieved  8 April  2017 . 
 
 ^   "Automobile simulation example" .  Cyberbotics . 18 June 2018 . Retrieved  18 June  2018 . 
 
 ^   Hallerbach, Sven; Xia, Yiqun; Eberle, Ulrich; Koester, Frank (3 April 2018).  "Simulation-based Identification of Critical Scenarios for Cooperative and Automated Vehicles" .  Toolchain for simulation-based development and testing of Automated  Driving .  SAE World Congress 2018 . SAE Technical Paper Series.  1 . pp. 93–106.  doi : 10.4271/2018-01-1066 . Retrieved  22 December  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Apply for an Autonomous Vehicle Technology Demonstration / Testing Permit" . 9 May 2017. 
 
 ^   Krok, Andrew.  "Apple increases  self - driving  test fleet from 3 to 27" .  Roadshow . Retrieved  26 January  2018 . 
 
 ^   Hall, Zac (20 March 2018).  "Apple ramping  self - driving  car testing, more CA permits than Tesla and Uber" .  Electrek . Retrieved  21 March  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Yandex takes its  self - driving  test  cars  out for a spin in the snow" .  TechCrunch . Retrieved  24 March  2020 . 
 
 ^   "A Year of Yandex  Self - Driving  Milestones" .  yandex.com . Retrieved  1 May  2019 . 
 
 ^   "Yandex  Self - Driving  Car. First Long-Distance Ride" .  youtube.com . Retrieved  1 May  2019 . 
 
 ^   "Компания "Яндекс" презентовала беспилотный автомобиль"  [Yandex presented driverless car].  priumnojay.ru . Retrieved  30 July  2019 . 
 
 ^   "Нет закона и интернета: почему по дорогам Татарстана не ездят беспилотники? | Inkazan" .  inkazan.ru  (in Russian) . Retrieved  24 March  2020 . 
 
 ^   " " Яндекс" начал испытания собственного беспилотного автомобиля в Лас-Вегасе"  ["Yandex" has started testing their driverless car in Las Vegas].  abctv.kz . Retrieved  30 July  2019 . 
 
 ^   Kleinman, Zoe (6 January 2020).  "Russian car with no driver at wheel tours Vegas" .  BBC News . Retrieved  24 March  2020 . 
 
 ^   "Yandex's  self - driving  car hits the streets of Tel Aviv - watch" .  The Jerusalem Post | JPost.com . Retrieved  24 March  2020 . 
 
 ^   "Governor Whitmer announces providers selected for NAIAS 2020 Michigan Mobility Challenge | Michigan Business" .  Michigan Economic Development Corporation (MEDC) . Retrieved  24 March  2020 . 
 
 ^   "Russia's Yandex Joins the  Self - Driving  Car Million-Mile Club" .  Bloomberg.com . 17 October 2019 . Retrieved  24 March  2020 . 
 
 ^   "Yandex claims 2 million  self - driving  car miles, double in 4 months" .  VentureBeat . 14 February 2020 . Retrieved  24 March  2020 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Wang, Brian (25 March 2018).  "Uber'  self - driving  system was still 400 times worse [than] Waymo in 2018 on key distance intervention metric" .  NextBigFuture.com . Retrieved  25 March  2018 . 
 
 ^   "First  self - driving  race car completes 1.8 kilometre track" .  euronews . 16 July 2018 . Retrieved  17 July  2018 . 
 
 ^   California Department of Motor Vehicles.  "Distance between disengagements" .  Statista . Retrieved  21 December  2019 . 
 
 ^   Metcalfe, John (5 October 2015).  "China Rolls Out the 'World's First Driverless Bus" . Bloomberg CityLab . Retrieved  25 July  2020 . 
 
 ^   Davies, Alex (7 October 2015).  "China's  Self - Driving  Bus Shows Autonomous Tech's Real Potential" . Wired . Retrieved  25 July  2020 . 
 
 ^   "China's first Level 4  self - driving  shuttle enters volume production" .  newatlas.com . 
 
 ^   LLC, Baidu USA (4 July 2018).  "Baidu Joins Forces with Softbank's SB Drive, King Long to Bring Apollo-Powered Autonomous Buses to Japan" .  GlobeNewswire News Room . 
 
 ^   "Driverless  cars  take to the road" . E.U.CORDIS Research Program CitynetMobil . Retrieved  27 October  2013 . 
 
 ^   "Snyder OKs  self - driving  vehicles on Michigan's roads" .  Detroit News . 27 December 2013 . Retrieved  1 January  2014 . 
 
 ^   "BBC News – UK to allow driverless  cars  on public roads in January" .  BBC News . 30 July 2014 . Retrieved  4 March  2015 . 
 
 ^   Burn-Callander, Rebecca (11 February 2015).  "This is the Lutz pod, the UK's first driverless car" .  Daily Telegraph . Retrieved  11 February  2015 . 
 
 ^   "Autonomous vehicle: the automated  driving  car of the future" .  PSA PEUGEOT CITROËN . Archived from  the original  on 26 September 2015 . Retrieved  2 October  2015 . 
 
 ^   Valeo Autonomous iAV Car  Driving  System CES 2015 .  YouTube . 5 January 2015. 
 
 ^   Hayward, Michael (26 January 2017).  "First New Zealand autonomous vehicle demonstration kicks off at Christchurch Airport" .  stuff.co.nz . Retrieved  23 March  2017 . 
 
 ^   " Self - driving  car to take on Tauranga traffic this week" .  Bay of Plenty Times . 15 November 2016 . Retrieved  23 March  2017 . 
 
 ^   "NZ's first  self -drive vehicle demonstration begins" .  stuff.co.nz . 17 November 2016 . Retrieved  23 March  2017 . 
 
 ^   Frykberg, Eric (28 June 2016).  "Driverless buses: 'It is going to be big ' " .  Radio New Zealand . Retrieved  23 March  2017 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Larson, William; Zhao, Weihua (2020). " Self - driving   cars  and the city: Effects on sprawl, energy consumption, and housing affordability".  Regional Science and Urban Economics .  81 : 103484.  doi : 10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2019.103484 .  ISSN   0166-0462 . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   Rojas-Rueda, David; Nieuwenhuijsen, Mark J.; Khreis, Haneen; Frumkin, Howard (31 January 2020).  "Autonomous Vehicles and Public Health" .  Annual Review of Public Health .  41 : 329–345.  doi : 10.1146/annurev-publhealth-040119-094035 .  ISSN   0163-7525 .  PMID   32004116 . 
 
 ^  a   b   "[INFOGRAPHIC] Autonomous  Cars  Could Save The US$1.3 Trillion Dollars A Year" . businessinsider.com. 12 September 2014 . Retrieved  3 October  2014 . 
 
 ^   Miller, John (19 August 2014).  " Self - Driving  Car Technology's Benefits, Potential Risks, and Solutions" .  theenergycollective.com . Archived from  the original  on 8 May 2015 . Retrieved  4 June  2015 . 
 
 ^   Whitwam, Ryan (8 September 2014).  "How Google's  self - driving   cars  detect and avoid obstacles" .  ExtremeTech . Retrieved  4 June  2015 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Cowen, Tyler (28 May 2011).  "Can I See Your License, Registration and C.P.U.?" .  The New York Times . 
 
 ^   Ramsey, Jonathon (8 March 2017).  "The Way We Talk About Autonomy Is a Lie, and That's Dangerous" .  thedrive.com . Retrieved  19 March  2018 . 
 
 ^   How Autonomous  Cars  Work  (radio interview) 
 
 ^   "An Open Source  Self - Driving  Car" .  Udacity . Retrieved  12 July  2017 . 
 
 ^   Fazzini, Kate (13 August 2018).  "Elon Musk: Tesla to open-source some  self - driving  software for safety" .  cnbc.com . 
 
 ^   Staff, Ars (24 April 2018).  "This startup's CEO wants to open-source  self - driving  car safety testing" .  Ars Technica . 
 
 ^   Sparrow, Robert; Howard, Mark (2017). "When human beings are like drunk robots: Driverless vehicles, ethics, and the future of transport".  Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies .  80 : 206–215.  doi : 10.1016/j.trc.2017.04.014 . 
 
 ^   Merat, Natasha; Jamson, A. Hamish (June 2009).  "How do drivers behave in a highly automated car?"   (PDF) .  Drive Assessment 2009 Proceedings . pp. 514–521.  ISBN   9-78087414162-7 .  Drivers' response to all critical events was found to be much later in the automated  driving  condition, compared to manual  driving . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   Light, Donald (8 May 2012).  A Scenario" The End of Auto Insurance  (Technical report). Celent. 
 
 ^  a   b   Mui, Chunka (19 December 2013).  "Will The Google Car Force A Choice Between Lives And Jobs?" .  Forbes . Retrieved  19 December  2013 . 
 
 ^   Gosman, Tim (24 July 2016).  "Along for the ride: How driverless  cars  can become commonplace" . Brand Union . Retrieved  29 October  2016 . 
 
 ^   Dudley, David (January 2015).  "The Driverless Car Is (Almost) Here; The  self - driving  car – a godsend for older Americans – is now on the horizon" .  AARP the Magazine . Retrieved  30 November  2015 . 
 
 ^   "Driver licensing system for older drivers in New South Wales, Australia" .  NSW Government . 30 June 2016 . Retrieved  16 May  2018 . 
 
 ^   Stenquist, Paul (7 November 2014).  "In  Self - Driving   Cars , a Potential Lifeline for the Disable" .  The New York Times . Retrieved  29 October  2016 . 
 
 ^   Curry, David (22 April 2016).  "Will elderly and disabled gain most from autonomous  cars ?" . ReadWrite . Retrieved  29 October  2016 . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   e   James M. Anderson; Nidhi Kalra; Karlyn D. Stanley; Paul Sorensen; Constantine Samaras; Oluwatobi A. Oluwatola (2016).  "Autonomous Vehicle Technology: A Guide for Policymakers" .  RAND Corporation . Retrieved  30 October  2016 . 
 
 ^   Simonite, Tom (1 November 2014).  " Self - Driving  Motorhome: RV of the Future?" . Archived from  the original  on 5 January 2016 . Retrieved  1 November  2015 .   Cite journal requires  |journal=  ( help ) 
 
 ^   "Get ready for automated  cars " .  Houston Chronicle . 11 September 2012 . Retrieved  5 December  2012 . 
 
 ^   Simonite, Tom (25 October 2013).  "Data Shows Google's Robot  Cars  Are Smoother, Safer Drivers Than You or I" .  MIT Technology Review . Retrieved  15 November  2013 . 
 
 ^   O'Toole, Randal  (18 January 2010).  Gridlock: Why We're Stuck in Traffic and What To Do About It . Cato Institute. p. 192.  ISBN   978-1-935308-24-9 . 
 
 ^   "Future Car Focus: Robot  Cars " . MSN Autos. 2013. Archived from  the original  on 12 January 2013 . Retrieved  27 January  2013 . 
 
 ^   Ackerman, Evan (4 September 2012).  "Study: Intelligent  Cars  Could Boost Highway Capacity by 273%" .  Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers  (IEEE) . IEEE Spectrum . Retrieved  29 October  2016 . 
 
 ^   Gibson, David K. (28 April 2016).  "Can we banish the phantom traffic jam?" . BBC. 
 
 ^   "Autonomous Intersection Management – FCFS policy with 6 lanes in all directions" . The University of Texas at Austin Computer Science Department. 12 June 2009 . Retrieved  28 April  2012 . 
 
 ^   "Mass unemployment fears over Google artificial intelligence plans" . London. 29 December 2013 . Retrieved  29 December  2013 . 
 
 ^   Dvorak, John C. (30 September 2015).  "There's a Bumpy Road Ahead for Driverless  Cars " .  PCMag . Retrieved  30 September  2015 . 
 
 ^   Benedikt Frey, Carl; Osborne, Michael A. (1 January 2017). "The future of employment: How susceptible are jobs to computerisation?".  Technological Forecasting and Social Change .  114 : 254–280.  CiteSeerX   10.1.1.395.416 .  doi : 10.1016/j.techfore.2016.08.019 .  ISSN   0040-1625 . 
 
 ^   Anwar, Mohammad Amir; Graham, Mark (20 April 2020).  "Digital labour at economic margins: African workers and the global information economy" .  Review of African Political Economy : 1–11.  doi : 10.1080/03056244.2020.1728243 .  ISSN   0305-6244 . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   e   f   Taiebat, Morteza; Brown, Austin; Safford, Hannah; Qu, Shen; Xu, Ming (2019). "A Review on Energy, Environmental, and Sustainability Implications of Connected and Automated Vehicles".  Environmental Science & Technology .  52  (20): 11449–11465.  arXiv : 1901.10581 .  Bibcode : 2019arXiv190110581T .  doi : 10.1021/acs.est.8b00127 .  PMID   30192527 . 
 
 ^   Pyper, Julia (15 September 2015).  " Self - Driving   Cars  Could Cut Greenhouse Gas Pollution" .  Scientific American . Retrieved  25 December  2018 . 
 
 ^   Woodyard, Chris (5 March 2015).  "McKinsey study:  Self - driving   cars  yield big benefits" .  USA Today . Retrieved  4 June  2015 . 
 
 ^   " Self - driving   cars : The next revolution"   (PDF) . kpmg.com. 5 September 2013 . Retrieved  6 September  2013 . 
 
 ^   Smith, Noah (5 November 2015).  "The downside of driverless  cars " .  The Sydney Morning Herald . Retrieved  30 October  2016 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Ufberg, Max (15 October 2015).  "Whoops: The  Self - Driving  Tesla May Make Us Love Urban Sprawl Again" .  Wired . Retrieved  28 October  2016 . 
 
 ^   "AAA Studies Technology Behind  Self - Driving   Cars " .  Your AAA Network . 18 February 2019 . Retrieved  21 February  2020 . 
 
 ^   "Spaced Out parking report" .  racfoundation.org . Retrieved  3 September  2018 . 
 
 ^   " " Cars  are parked 95% of the time". Let's check!" .  reinventingparking.org . Retrieved  3 September  2018 . 
 
 ^   Chester, Mikhail; Fraser, Andrew; Matute, Juan; Flower, Carolyn; Pendyala, Ram (2 October 2015). "Parking Infrastructure: A Constraint on or Opportunity for Urban Redevelopment? A Study of Los Angeles County Parking Supply and Growth".  Journal of the American Planning Association .  81  (4): 268–286.  doi : 10.1080/01944363.2015.1092879 .  ISSN   0194-4363 . 
 
 ^   "See Just How Much of a City's Land Is Used For Parking Spaces" .  Fast Company . 20 July 2017 . Retrieved  3 September  2018 . 
 
 ^   Stewart, Jack (25 March 2018).  "Forget  Self   Driving . The Future is in  Self  Parking" .  Wired . 
 
 ^   Miller, Owen.  "Robotic  Cars  and Their New Crime Paradigms" . Retrieved  4 September  2014 . 
 
 ^   Neumann, Peter G. (September 2016). "Risks of Automation: A Cautionary Total-system Perspective of Our Cyberfuture".  Commun. ACM .  59  (10): 26–30.  doi : 10.1145/2988445 .  ISSN   0001-0782 . 
 
 ^   Acharya, Anish (16 December 2014). "Are We Ready for Driver-less Vehicles? Security vs. Privacy – A Social Perspective".  arXiv : 1412.5207  [ cs.CY ]. 
 
 ^   Patrick Lin (22 January 2014).  "What If Your Autonomous Car Keeps Routing You Past Krispy Kreme?" .  The Atlantic . Retrieved  22 January  2014 . 
 
 ^   Glielmo, Luigi.  "Vehicle-to-Vehicle/Vehicle-to-Infrastructure Control"   (PDF) . 
 
 ^   Mark Harris (16 July 2014).  "FBI warns driverless  cars  could be used as 'lethal weapons ' " .  The Guardian . 
 
 ^   Nicholas, Negroponte (1 January 2000).  Being digital . Vintage Books.  ISBN   978-0679762904 .  OCLC   68020226 . 
 
 ^   Adhikari, Richard (11 February 2016).  "Feds Put AI in the Driver's Seat" .  Technewsworld . Retrieved  12 February  2016 . 
 
 ^   Nichols, Greg (13 February 2016).  "NHTSA chief takes conservative view on autonomous vehicles: "If you had perfect, connected autonomous vehicles on the road tomorrow, it would still take 20 to 30 years to turn over the fleet. " " .  ZDNet . Retrieved  17 February  2016 . 
 
 ^   "New Allstate Survey Shows Americans Think They Are Great Drivers – Habits Tell a Different Story" .  PR Newswire . 2 August 2011 . Retrieved  7 September  2013 . 
 
 ^   Henn, Steve (31 July 2015).  "Remembering When Driverless Elevators Drew Skepticism" .  NPR . Retrieved  14 August  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Will Regulators Allow  Self - Driving   Cars  in a Few Years?" .  Forbes . 24 September 2013 . Retrieved  5 January  2014 . 
 
 ^   "Reliance on autopilot is now the biggest threat to flight safety, study says" . 18 November 2013 . Retrieved  19 November  2013 . 
 
 ^   Patrick Lin (8 October 2013).  "The Ethics of Autonomous  Cars " .  The Atlantic . 
 
 ^   Alexander Skulmowski; Andreas Bunge; Kai Kaspar; Gordon Pipa (16 December 2014).  "Forced-choice decision-making in modified trolley dilemma situations: a virtual reality and eye tracking study" .  Frontiers in Behavioral Neuroscience .  8 : 426.  doi : 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00426 .  PMC   4267265 .  PMID   25565997 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Gomes, Lee (28 August 2014).  "Hidden Obstacles for Google's  Self - Driving   Cars " .  MIT Technology Review . Retrieved  22 January  2015 . 
 
 ^   SingularityU The Netherlands (1 September 2016),  Carlo van de Weijer on real intelligence , retrieved  21 November  2016 
 
 ^   "Hackers find ways to hijack car computers and take control" . 3 September 2013 . Retrieved  7 September  2013 . 
 
 ^   Philip E. Ross (11 April 2014).  "A Cloud-Connected Car Is a Hackable Car, Worries Microsoft" .  IEEE Spectrum . Retrieved  23 April  2014 . 
 
 ^   Moore-Colyer, Roland (12 February 2015).  "Driverless  cars  face cyber security, skills and safety challenges" .  v3.co.uk . Retrieved  24 April  2015 . 
 
 ^   Petit, J.; Shladover, S.E. (1 April 2015). "Potential Cyberattacks on Automated Vehicles".  IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems .  16  (2): 546–556.  doi : 10.1109/TITS.2014.2342271 .  ISSN   1524-9050 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Ron Tussy (29 April 2016).  "Challenges facing Autonomous Vehicle Development" . AutoSens . Retrieved  5 May  2016 . 
 
 ^   Zhou, Naaman (1 July 2017).  "Volvo admits its  self - driving   cars  are confused by kangaroos" .  The Guardian . Retrieved  1 July  2017 . 
 
 ^   Glenn Garvin (21 March 2014).  "Automakers say  self - driving   cars  are on the horizon" .  Miami Herald . Retrieved  22 March  2014 . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   Badger, Emily (15 January 2015).  "5 confounding questions that hold the key to the future of driverless  cars " .  The Washington Post . Retrieved  22 January  2015 . 
 
 ^   Brodsky, Jessica (2016).  "Autonomous Vehicle Regulation: How an Uncertain Legal Landscape May Hit the Brakes on  Self - Driving   Cars " .  Berkeley Technology Law Journal .  31  (Annual Review 2016): 851–878 . Retrieved  29 November  2017 . 
 
 ^   Silver, David (20 January 2018).  "Limited talent pool is standing in the way of driverless  cars " .  The Next Web . 
 
 ^   "DIY Robocars first year in review" . 
 
 ^   Laursen, Lucas (28 August 2017).  "The Tech That Won the First Formula Student Driverless Race" .  IEEE Spectrum . 
 
 ^   "udacity/ self - driving -car" .  GitHub . 31 December 2018. 
 
 ^   "Berkeley Deep Drive" .  bdd-data.berkeley.edu . 
 
 ^   "Glossary – Level Five Jobs" .  levelfivejobs.com . 27 July 2018. 
 
 ^   NVIDIA Introduces DRIVE AGX Orin — Advanced, Software-Defined Platform for Autonomous Machines | Tuesday, December 17, 2019 |  scale from a Level 2 to full  self - driving  Level 5 vehicle 
 
 ^   "You can take a ride in a  self - driving  Lyft during CES" .  The Verge . Retrieved  26 November  2018 . 
 
 ^   Adams, Ian (30 December 2016).  " Self - Driving   Cars  Will Make Organ Shortages Even Worse" .  Slate . Retrieved  9 November  2018 . 
 
 ^   Snow, Shawn (29 August 2017).  "The US Army is developing autonomous armored vehicles" .  Army Times . Retrieved  26 November  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Driver-less car design: Sleep-walking into the future?" . 5 April 2016. Archived from  the original  on 5 April 2016 . Retrieved  26 November  2018 . 
 
 ^   Company, Ford Motor (7 January 2019).  "How 'Talking' and 'Listening' Vehicles Could Make Roads Safer, Cities Better" .  Medium . Retrieved  8 June  2019 . 
 
 ^   Mohan, Aniruddh; Sripad, Shashank; Vaishnav, Parth; Viswanathan, Venkatasubramanian (June 2020).  "Trade-offs between automation and light vehicle electrification" .  Nature Energy .  doi : 10.1038/s41560-020-0644-3 . 
 
 ^   "Volvo's Fully Autonomous 360c Concept Vehicle Even Lets You Sleep in It" . 6 September 2018 . Retrieved  26 November  2018 . 
 
 ^   Ashley Jalsey III,  Driverless  cars  promise far greater mobility for the elderly and people with disabilities ,  Washington Post  (23 November 2017). 
 
 ^   Henry Claypool, Amitai Bin-Nun & Jeffrey Gerlach,  Self - Driving   Cars : The Impact on People with Disabilities  (January 2017),  Ruderman Family Foundation /Securing America's Future Energy. 
 
 ^   McParland, Tom.  "Why Autonomous  Cars  Could Be The Change Disabled People Need" .  Jalopnik . Retrieved  26 November  2018 . 
 
 ^   Nelson, Gabe (14 October 2015).  "Tesla beams down 'autopilot' mode to Model S" .  Automotive News . Retrieved  19 October  2015 . 
 
 ^   Zhang, Benjamin (10 January 2016).  "ELON MUSK: In 2 years your Tesla will be able to drive from New York to LA and find you" .  Automotive News . Retrieved  12 January  2016 . 
 
 ^   Charlton, Alistair (13 June 2016).  "Tesla Autopilot is 'trying to kill me', says Volvo R&D chief" .  International Business Times . Retrieved  1 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   Golson, Jordan (27 April 2016).  "Volvo autonomous car engineer calls Tesla's Autopilot a 'wannabe ' " .  The Verge . Retrieved  1 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   Korosec, Kirsten (15 December 2015).  "Elon Musk Says Tesla Vehicles Will Drive Themselves in Two Years" .  Fortune . Retrieved  1 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Path to Autonomy:  Self - Driving  Car Levels 0 to 5 Explained" .  Car and Driver . 3 October 2017 . Retrieved  1 January  2019 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Abuelsamid, Sam (1 July 2016).  "Tesla Autopilot Fatality Shows Why Lidar And V2V Will Be Necessary For Autonomous  Cars " .  Forbes . Retrieved  1 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   Horwitz, Josh; Timmons, Heather (20 September 2016).  "There are some scary similarities between Tesla's deadly crashes linked to Autopilot" .  Quartz . Retrieved  19 March  2018 . 
 
 ^   "China's first accidental death due to Tesla's automatic  driving : not hitting the front bumper" .  China State Media  (in Chinese). 14 September 2016 . Retrieved  18 March  2018 . 
 
 ^   Felton, Ryan (27 February 2018).  "Two Years On, A Father Is Still Fighting Tesla Over Autopilot And His Son's Fatal Crash" .  jalopnik.com . Retrieved  18 March  2018 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Yadron, Danny; Tynan, Dan (1 July 2016).  "Tesla driver dies in first fatal crash while using autopilot mode" .  The Guardian .  San Francisco . Retrieved  1 July  2016 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Vlasic, Bill; Boudette, Neal E. (30 June 2016).  " Self - Driving  Tesla Involved in Fatal Crash" .  The New York Times . Retrieved  1 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   Office of Defects Investigations, NHTSA (28 June 2016).  "ODI Resume – Investigation: PE 16-007"   (PDF) .  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  (NHTSA) . Retrieved  2 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   Shepardson, David (12 July 2016).  "NHTSA seeks answers on fatal Tesla Autopilot crash" .  Automotive News . Retrieved  13 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   "A Tragic Loss"  (Press release).  Tesla Motors . 30 June 2016 . Retrieved  1 July  2016 .  This is the first known fatality in just over 130 million miles where Autopilot was activated. Among all vehicles in the US, there is a fatality every 94 million miles. Worldwide, there is a fatality approximately every 60 million miles. 
 
 ^   Abuelsamid, Sam.  "Adding Some Statistical Perspective To Tesla Autopilot Safety Claims" . 
 
 ^   Administration, National Highway Traffic Safety.  "FARS Encyclopedia" . 
 
 ^   Alan Levin; Jeff Plungis (8 July 2016).  "NTSB to scrutinize driver automation with probe of Tesla crash" .  Automotive News . Retrieved  11 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Fatal Tesla Autopilot accident investigation ends with no recall ordered" .  The Verge . 19 January 2016 . Retrieved  19 January  2017 . 
 
 ^   "All Tesla  Cars  Being Produced Now Have Full  Self - Driving  Hardware" . 19 October 2016. 
 
 ^   "Autopilot: Full  Self - Driving  Hardware on All  Cars " . Tesla Motors . Retrieved  21 October  2016 . 
 
 ^   Guess, Megan (20 October 2016).  "Teslas will now be sold with enhanced hardware suite for full autonomy" .  Ars Technica . Retrieved  20 October  2016 . 
 
 ^   Self - driving  Car Logs More Miles , googleblog 
 
 ^   A First Drive .  YouTube . 27 May 2014. 
 
 ^   "Google  Self - Driving  Car Project, Monthly Report, March 2016"   (PDF) . Retrieved  23 March  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Waymo" .  Waymo . 
 
 ^   Davies, Alex (13 December 2016).  "Meet the Blind Man Who Convinced Google Its  Self - Driving  Car Is Finally Ready" .  Wired . 
 
 ^  a   b   "For the first time, Google's  self - driving  car takes some blame for a crash" .  Washington Post . 29 February 2016. 
 
 ^   "Google founder defends accident records of  self - driving   cars " .  Associated Press .  Los Angeles Times . 3 June 2015 . Retrieved  1 July  2016 . 
 
 ^   VISHAL MATHUR (17 July 2015).  "Google Autonomous Car Experiences Another Crash" .  Government Technology . Retrieved  18 July  2015 . 
 
 ^   "Google's  Self - Driving  Car Caused Its First Crash" .  Wired . February 2016. 
 
 ^   "Passenger bus teaches Google robot car a lesson" .  Los Angeles Times . 29 February 2016. 
 
 ^   "Uber to Suspend Autonomous Tests After Arizona Accident" . 25 March 2017 – via www.bloomberg.com. 
 
 ^   "Uber's  Self - Driving   Cars  Hit 2 Million Miles As Program Regains Momentum" . 22 December 2017 – via www.forbes.com. 
 
 ^   Bensinger, Greg; Higgins, Tim (22 March 2018).  "Video Shows Moments Before Uber Robot Car Rammed into Pedestrian" .  Wall Street Journal . Retrieved  25 March  2018 . 
 
 ^   Lubben, Alex (19 March 2018).  " Self - driving  Uber killed a pedestrian as human safety driver watched" .  Vice News . Retrieved  19 March  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Human Driver Could Have Avoided Fatal Uber Crash, Experts Say" . 22 March 2018 – via www.bloomberg.com. 
 
 ^   The Associated Press; abc15.com staff (27 March 2018).  "Governor Ducey suspends Uber from automated vehicle testing" .  KNXV-TV . Retrieved  27 March  2018 . 
 
 ^   Said, Carolyn (27 March 2018).  "Uber puts the brakes on testing robot  cars  in California after Arizona fatality" .  San Francisco Chronicle . Retrieved  8 April  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Preliminary Report Released for Crash Involving Pedestrian, Uber Technologies, Inc., Test Vehicle"   (PDF) . 24 May 2018. 
 
 ^   Gibbs, Samuel (9 November 2017).  " Self - driving  bus involved in crash less than two hours after Las Vegas launch" .  The Guardian . Retrieved  9 November  2017 . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   Lim, Hazel Si Min; Taeihagh, Araz (2018). "Autonomous Vehicles for Smart and Sustainable Cities: An In-Depth Exploration of Privacy and Cybersecurity Implications".  Energies .  11  (5): 1062.  arXiv : 1804.10367 .  Bibcode : 2018arXiv180410367L .  doi : 10.3390/en11051062 . 
 
 ^   Lee, Timothy (31 January 2015).  "Driverless  cars  will mean the end of mass car ownership" . Vox . Retrieved  31 January  2015 . 
 
 ^   O'Toole, Randal, Policy Implications of Autonomous Vehicles (18 September 2014). Cato Institute Policy Analysis No. 758. Available at SSRN:  https://ssrn.com/abstract=2549392 
 
 ^   Pinto, Cyrus (2012). "How autonomous vehicle policy in California and Nevada addresses technological and non-technological liabilities".  Intersect: The Stanford Journal of Science, Technology and Society .  5 . 
 
 ^   Badger, Emily (15 January 2015).  "5 confounding questions that hold the key to the future of driverless  cars " .  Washington Post .  ISSN   0190-8286 . Retrieved  27 November  2017 . 
 
 ^   Guerra, Erick (1 June 2016). "Planning for  Cars  That Drive Themselves: Metropolitan Planning Organizations, Regional Transportation Plans, and Autonomous Vehicles".  Journal of Planning Education and Research .  36  (2): 210–224.  doi : 10.1177/0739456X15613591 .  ISSN   0739-456X . 
 
 ^   Litman, Todd. "Autonomous vehicle implementation predictions."  Victoria Transport Policy Institute  28 (2014). 
 
 ^   Humphreys, Pat (19 August 2016).  "Retail Revolution" .  Transport and Travel . Retrieved  24 August  2016 . 
 
 ^   JafariNaimi, Nassim (2018). "Our Bodies in the Trolley's Path, or Why  Self - driving   Cars  Must *Not* Be Programmed to Kill".  Science, Technology, & Human Values .  43  (2): 302–323.  doi : 10.1177/0162243917718942 . 
 
 ^   Jain, Lochlann (2004).  " " Dangerous instrumentality": the bystander as subject in automobility" .  Cultural Anthropology .  19  (1): 61–94.  doi : 10.1525/can.2004.19.1.61 . 
 
 ^   "GAR – 1968 Vienna Convention" . 1 December 2017. Archived from  the original  on 1 December 2017. 
 
 ^   Bryant Walker Smith (1 November 2012).  "Automated Vehicles Are Probably Legal in The United States" . The Center for Internet and Society (CIS) at Stanford Law School . Retrieved  31 January  2013 . 
 
 ^   Canis, Bill (19 September 2017).  Issues in Autonomous Vehicle Deployment   (PDF) . Washington, DC: Congressional Research Service . Retrieved  16 October  2017 . 
 
 ^   Bryant Walker Smith.  "Automated  Driving : Legislative and Regulatory Action" . The Center for Internet and Society (CIS) at Stanford Law School . Retrieved  31 January  2013 . 
 
 ^   Kang, Cecilia (19 September 2016).  " Self - Driving   Cars  Gain Powerful Ally: The Government" .  The New York Times .  ISSN   0362-4331 . Retrieved  28 September  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Nevada enacts law authorizing autonomous (driverless) vehicles" . Green Car Congress. 25 June 2011 . Retrieved  25 June  2011 . 
 
 ^   Alex Knapp (22 June 2011).  "Nevada Passes Law Authorizing Driverless  Cars " .  Forbes .  Archived  from the original on 28 June 2011 . Retrieved  25 June  2011 . 
 
 ^   Christine Dobby (24 June 2011).  "Nevada state law paves the way for driverless  cars " .  Financial Post . Retrieved  25 June  2011 . 
 
 ^  a   b   John Markoff (10 May 2011).  "Google Lobbies Nevada To Allow  Self - Driving   Cars " .  The New York Times . Retrieved  11 May  2011 . 
 
 ^   "Bill AB511 Nevada Legislature"   (PDF) .  Nevada Legislature . Retrieved  25 June  2011 . 
 
 ^   Tim Healey (24 June 2011).  "Nevada Passes Law Allowing  Self - Driving   Cars " .  Motor Trend . Retrieved  25 June  2011 . 
 
 ^   Cy Ryan (7 May 2012).  "Nevada issues Google first license for  self - driving  car" .  Las Vegas Sun . Retrieved  12 May  2012 . 
 
 ^   Valdes, Ana M. (5 July 2012).  "Florida embraces  self - driving   cars , as engineers and lawmakers prepare for the new technology" .  WPTV . Archived from  the original  on 12 April 2013. 
 
 ^   Oram, John (27 September 2012).  "Governor Brown Signs California Driverless Car Law at Google HQ" . Archived from  the original  on 30 September 2012. 
 
 ^   "New Law Allows Driverless  Cars  on Michigan Roads" .  CBS Detroit . 28 December 2013 . Retrieved  2 November  2014 . 
 
 ^   Selle, Jeff (7 August 2014).  "Aye, Robot: Cd'A City Council approves robot ordinance" .  Coeur d'Alene Press . 
 
 ^   "Bill Text – AB-2866 Autonomous vehicles" .  leginfo.legislature.ca.gov . Retrieved  2 November  2019 . 
 
 ^   "Federal Automated Vehicles Policy" .  Department of Transportation . 14 September 2016 . Retrieved  20 October  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Public Workshop Autonomous Vehicles"   (PDF) . 19 October 2016 . Retrieved  20 September  2017 . 
 
 ^   Levin, Sam (15 December 2016).  "Uber blames humans for  self - driving  car traffic offenses as California orders a halt" .  The Guardian . Retrieved  15 December  2016 . 
 
 ^  a   b   "UK to road test driverless  cars " . BBC. 16 July 2013 . Retrieved  17 July  2013 . 
 
 ^   "Des véhicules autonomes sur route ouverte à Bordeaux en octobre 2015" .  usine-digitale.fr . 
 
 ^   Greenblatt, Nathan (19 January 2016).  " Self - Driving   Cars  Will Be Ready Before Our Laws Are" .  IEEE Spectrum . 
 
 ^   "Swisscom reeals the first driverless car on Swiss roads" . Swisscom. 12 May 2015. Archived from  the original  on 28 September 2015 . Retrieved  1 August  2015 . 
 
 ^   "Zalazone home page" .  zalazone.hu . Retrieved  24 January  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Hungary as one of the European hubs for automated and connected  driving "   (PDF) .  ZalaZone . Retrieved  23 January  2018 . 
 
 ^   Maierbrugger, Arno (1 August 2016).  "Singapore to launch  self - driving  taxis next year | Investvine" . Retrieved  9 August  2016 . 
 
 ^   Ramirez, Elaine (7 February 2017).  "How South Korea Plans To Put Driverless  Cars  On The Road By 2020" .  Forbes . Retrieved  23 November  2019 . 
 
 ^   Slone, Sean.  "State Laws on Autonomous Vehicles" . Retrieved  11 December  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Ten ways autonomous  driving  could redefine the automotive world" . Retrieved  11 December  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Marketplace of change: Automobile insurance in the era of autonomous vehicles" . Archived from  the original  on 13 April 2018 . Retrieved  1 January  2019 . 
 
 ^   " Self - driving  car liability" ,  Wikipedia , 13 April 2020 , retrieved  24 April  2020 
 
 ^   "Types of Product Liability Claims" .  Cornell Law . 
 
 ^   Boba, Antonio (December 1982). "Responsibility for Equipment Failure: Consumer vs. Manufacturer".  Anesthesiology .  57  (6): 547.  doi : 10.1097/00000542-198212000-00027 .  ISSN   0003-3022 . 
 
 ^   "Frequency of Target Crashes for IntelliDrive Safety Systems"   (PDF) . 
 
 ^   "No lights, no signs, no accidents – future intersections for driverless  cars  (video)" . Reuters.com. 22 March 2012 . Retrieved  28 April  2012 . 
 
 ^   Andert, Edward; Khayatian, Mohammad; Shrivastava, Aviral (18 June 2017). "Crossroads".  Crossroads: Time-Sensitive Autonomous Intersection Management Technique . Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. pp. 1–6.  doi : 10.1145/3061639.3062221 .  ISBN   9781450349277 . 
 
 ^   Khayatian, Mohammad; Mehrabian, Mohammadreza; Shrivastava, Aviral (2018). "RIM: Robust Intersection Management for Connected Autonomous Vehicles".  2018 IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS) . Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. pp. 35–44.  doi : 10.1109/RTSS.2018.00014 .  ISBN   978-1-5386-7908-1 . 
 
 ^   "Mobility 2020" . Nordic Communications Corporation. 8 January 2016. 
 
 ^   "Consumers in US and UK Frustrated with Intelligent Devices That Frequently Crash or Freeze, New Accenture Survey Finds" . Accenture. 10 October 2011 . Retrieved  30 June  2013 . 
 
 ^   Yvkoff, Liane (27 April 2012).  "Many car buyers show interest in autonomous car tech" .  CNET . Retrieved  30 June  2013 . 
 
 ^   "Große Akzeptanz für selbstfahrende Autos in Deutschland" . motorvision.de. 9 October 2012. Archived from  the original  on 15 May 2016 . Retrieved  6 September  2013 . 
 
 ^   "Autonomous  Cars  Found Trustworthy in Global Study" . autosphere.ca. 22 May 2013 . Retrieved  6 September  2013 . 
 
 ^   "Autonomous  cars : Bring 'em on, drivers say in Insurance.com survey" .  Insurance.com . 28 July 2014 . Retrieved  29 July  2014 . 
 
 ^   "Autonomous Vehicle Predictions: Auto Experts Offer Insights on the Future of  Self - Driving   Cars " .  PartCatalog.com . 16 March 2015 . Retrieved  18 March  2015 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Kyriakidis, M.; Happee, R.; De Winter, J. C. F. (2015). "Public opinion on automated  driving : Results of an international questionnaire among 5,000 respondents".  Transportation Research Part F: Traffic Psychology and Behaviour .  32 : 127–140.  doi : 10.1016/j.trf.2015.04.014 . 
 
 ^   Hohenberger, C.; Spörrle, M.; Welpe, I. M. (2016). "How and why do men and women differ in their willingness to use automated  cars ? The influence of emotions across different age groups".  Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice .  94 : 374–385.  doi : 10.1016/j.tra.2016.09.022 . 
 
 ^   Hall-Geisler, Kristen (22 December 2016).  "Autonomous  cars  seen as smarter than human drivers" .  TechCrunch . Retrieved  26 December  2016 . 
 
 ^   Smith, Aaron; Anderson, Monica (4 October 2017).  "Automation in Everyday Life" . 
 
 ^   Hewitt, Charlie; Politis, Ioannis; Amanatidis, Theocharis; Sarkar, Advait (2019). "Assessing public perception of  self - driving   cars : the autonomous vehicle acceptance model".  Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces . ACM Press: 518–527.  doi : 10.1145/3301275.3302268 . 
 
 ^   "Preparing a nation for autonomous vehicles: Opportunities, barriers and policy recommendations".  Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice .  77 . 
 
 ^  a   b   "Responsibility for Crashes of Autonomous Vehicles: An Ethical Analysis".  Sci Eng Ethics .  21 . 
 
 ^   "The Coming Collision Between Autonomous Vehicles and the Liability System".  Santa Clara Law Review .  52 . 
 
 ^   "The Trolley Problem".  The Yale Law Journal .  94  (6). 
 
 ^   Himmelreich, Johannes (17 May 2018). "Never Mind the Trolley: The Ethics of Autonomous Vehicles in Mundane Situations".  Ethical Theory and Moral Practice .  21  (3): 669–684.  doi : 10.1007/s10677-018-9896-4 .  ISSN   1386-2820 . 
 
 ^  a   b   Meyer, G.; Beiker, S (2014).  Road vehicle automation . Springer International Publishing. pp. 93–102. 
 
 ^   Karnouskos, Stamatis (2020).  " Self - Driving  Car Acceptance and the Role of Ethics" .  IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management .  67  (2): 252–265.  doi : 10.1109/TEM.2018.2877307 .  ISSN   0018-9391 . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   e   Himmelreich, Johannes (2018). "Never Mind the Trolley: The Ethics of Autonomous Vehicles in Mundane Situations".  Ethical Theory and Moral Practice .  21  (3): 669.  doi : 10.1007/s10677-018-9896-4 . 
 
 ^   Lafrance, Adrienne (21 March 2016).  "How  Self - Driving   Cars  Will Threaten Privacy" . Retrieved  4 November  2016 . 
 
 ^   Jack, Boeglin (1 January 2015).  "The Costs of  Self - Driving   Cars : Reconciling Freedom and Privacy with Tort Liability in Autonomous Vehicle Regulation" .  Yale Journal of Law and Technology .  17  (1). 
 
 ^   Greenhouse, Steven.  "Autonomous vehicles could cost America 5 million jobs. What should we do about it?" .  Los Angeles Times . Retrieved  7 December  2016 . 
 
 ^   Bertoncello, M.; Wee, D.  "Ten ways autonomous  driving  could redefine the automotive world" .  McKinsey & Company . Retrieved  7 December  2016 . 
 
 ^   "Employment by detailed occupation" .  bls.gov . United States Department of Labor . Retrieved  7 December  2016 . 
 
 ^   Fagnant, D. J.; Kockelman, K. (2015). "Preparing a nation for autonomous vehicles: Opportunities, barriers, and policy recommendations".  Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice .  77 : 167–181.  doi : 10.1016/j.tra.2015.04.003 . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   Edmond Awad, Sohan Dsouza, Richard Kim, Jonathan Schulz, Joseph Jenrich, Azim Shariff, & Jean-François Bonnefon, & Iyan Rahwan (2018). "The Moral Machine Experiment".  Nature .  563  (7729): 59–64.  Bibcode : 2018Natur.563...59A .  doi : 10.1038/s41586-018-0637-6 .  hdl : 10871/39187 .  PMID   30356211 . CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list ( link ) 
 
 ^  a   b   Hornigold, Thomas.  "Building a Moral Machine: Who Decides the Ethics of  Self   Driving   Cars ?" .  Singularity Hub . 
 
 ^  a   b   c   d   e   f   g   Jean-François Bonnefon, Azim Shariff, & Iyad Rahwan (2016). "The Social Dilemma of Autonomous Vehicles".  Science .  352  (6293): 1573–6.  arXiv : 1510.03346 .  Bibcode : 2016Sci...352.1573B .  doi : 10.1126/science.aaf2654 .  PMID   27339987 . CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list ( link ) 
 
 ^   Rawhwan, Iyad.  "The Social Dilemma of Driverless  Cars " .  Youtube . TedXCambridge. 
 
 ^   Lambert, Fred (21 December 2015).  "Tesla CEO Elon Musk drops his prediction of full autonomous  driving  from 3 years to just 2" .  electrek.co . Retrieved  23 May  2018 . 
 
 ^   Lambert, Fred (8 December 2017).  "Elon Musk updates timeline for a  self - driving  car, but how does Tesla play into it?" .  electrek.co . Retrieved  23 May  2018 . 
 
 ^   "Robocar: Watch the world's fastest autonomous car reach its record-breaking 282 km/h" .  Guinness World Records . 17 October 2019 . Retrieved  30 June  2020 . 
 
 ^   Britt, Ryan.  "The 5 Best (and Worst) Autonomous  Cars  in All of Sci-Fi" . 
 
 ^   "3D-Drucker: Warum die Industrie wieder einen Trend verschläft"  (in German). t3n News . Retrieved  22 January  2017 . 
 
 ^   " ' Bull' episode 10 preview: The  self - driving  car case and Ginny Bretton" . 3 January 2017. 
 
 
 Further reading [ edit ] 
 
 
 
 Wikimedia Commons has media related to  Unmanned automobiles . 
 
 O'Toole, Randal (18 January 2010).  Gridlock: Why We're Stuck in Traffic and What To Do About It . Cato Institute.  ISBN   978-1-935308-24-9 . 
 Macdonald, Iain David Graham (2011).  A Simulated Autonomous Car   (PDF)  (thesis). The University of Edinburgh . Retrieved  17 April  2013 . 
 Knight, Will (22 October 2013).  "The Future of  Self - driving   Cars " .  MIT Technology Review . Retrieved  22 July  2016 . 
 Taiebat, Morteza; Brown, Austin; Safford, Hannah; Qu, Shen; Xu, Ming (2019). "A Review on Energy, Environmental, and Sustainability Implications of Connected and Automated Vehicles".  Environmental Science & Technology .  52  (20): 11449–11465.  arXiv : 1901.10581 .  Bibcode : 2019arXiv190110581T .  doi : 10.1021/acs.est.8b00127 .  PMID   30192527 . 
 Glancy, Dorothy (2016).  A Look at the Legal Environment for Driverless Vehicles   (PDF)  (Report). National Cooperative Highway Research Program Legal Research Digest.  69 . Washington, DC: Transportation Research Board.  ISBN   978-0-309-37501-6 . Retrieved  22 July  2016 . 
 Newbold, Richard (17 June 2015).  "The  driving  forces behind what would be the next revolution in the haulage sector" .  The Loadstar . Retrieved  22 July  2016 . 
 Bergen, Mark (27 October 2015).  "Meet the Companies Building  Self - Driving   Cars  for Google and Tesla (And Maybe Apple)" .  re/code . 
 John A. Volpe National Transportation Systems Center  (March 2016).  "Review of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS) for Automated Vehicles: Identifying potential barriers and challenges for the certification of automated vehicles using existing FMVSS"   (PDF) .  National Transportation Library .  US Department of Transportation . 
 Slone, Sean (August 2016).  "State Laws on Autonomous Vehicles"   (PDF) .  Capitol Research – Transportation Policy .  Council of State Governments . Retrieved  28 September  2016 . 
 Steve Henn (31 July 2015).  "Remembering When Driverless Elevators Drew Skepticism" . 
 James M. Anderson;  et al. (2016).  "Autonomous Vehicle Technology: A Guide for Policymakers"   (PDF) .  RAND Corporation . 
 Gereon Meyer, Sven Beiker (Eds.),  Road Vehicle Automation ,  Springer International Publishing 2014,  ISBN   978-3-319-05990-7 , and following issues:  Road Vehicle Automation 2  (2015),  Road Vehicle Automation 3  (2016),  Road Vehicle Automation 4  (2017),  Road Vehicle Automation 5  (2018),  Road Vehicle Automation 6  (2019). These books are based on presentations and discussions at the Automated Vehicles Symposium organized annually by  TRB  and  AUVSI . 
 Roger Kemp (2018).  "Autonomous vehicles – who will be liable for accidents?" . [15 Digital Evidence and Electronic Signature Law Review (2018) 33 – 47]. 
 v t e Self - driving   cars  and enabling technologies Overview and context 
 History of  self - driving   cars 
 Intelligent transportation system 
 Context-aware pervasive systems 
 Mobile computing 
 Smart, connected products 
 Ubiquitous computing 
 Ambient intelligence 
 Internet of things 
 SAE Levels Human driver monitors the  driving  environment (Levels 0,1,2) 
 Lane departure warning system 
 Automatic parking 
 Collision avoidance system 
 Adaptive cruise control 
 Advanced driver-assistance systems 
 Driver drowsiness detection 
 Intelligent speed adaptation 
 Blind spot monitor 
 System monitors the  driving  environment (Levels 3,4,5) 
 Vehicle-to-vehicle  (V2V) 
 Connected car 
 Automotive navigation system 
 Vehicles Cars 
 VaMP  (1994) 
 Spirit of Berlin  (2007) 
 General Motors EN-V  (2010) 
 MadeInGermany  (2011) 
 Waymo , formerly Google Car (2012) 
 Tesla Model S  with  Autopilot  (2015) 
 LUTZ Pathfinder  (2015) 
 Yandex  self - driving  car  (2017) 
 Buses and commercial vehicles 
 Automated guideway transit 
 ParkShuttle 
 Navia shuttle 
 NuTonomy  taxi 
 Freightliner Inspiration 
 Driverless tractor 
 Mobility as a service 
 Regulation 
 Legislation 
 IEEE 802.11p 
  Safe speed automotive common law 
 Enabling technologies 
 Radar 
 Laser 
 LIDAR 
 Artificial neural network 
 Computer stereo vision 
 Image recognition 
 Dedicated short-range communications 
 Real-time Control System 
 Eye tracking 
 Radio-frequency identification 
 Organizations, Projects & People Organizations, projects and events 
 DAVI 
 European Land-Robot Trial 
 Navlab 
 DARPA Grand Challenge 
 VisLab Intercontinental Autonomous Challenge 
 Eureka Prometheus Project 
 IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems Society 
 People 
 Harold Goddijn 
 Alberto Broggi 
 Anthony Levandowski 
 
 v t e Emerging technologies Fields Transport Aerial 
 Adaptive compliant wing 
 Backpack helicopter 
 Delivery drone 
 Flying car 
 High-altitude platform 
 Jet pack 
 Pulse detonation engine 
 Scramjet 
 Spaceplane 
 Supersonic transport 
 Land 
 Airless tire 
 Alternative fuel vehicle 
 Hydrogen vehicle 
 Driverless car 
 Ground effect train 
 Hyperloop 
 Maglev train 
 Personal rapid transit 
 Platoon 
 Transit Elevated Bus 
 Vactrain 
 Vehicular communication systems 
 Pipeline 
 Pneumatic transport 
 Automated vacuum collection 
 
   Category 
   List 
 
 v t e Car  design Classification By size 
 Micro 
 City 
 Kei 
 Subcompact 
 Supermini 
 Family 
 Compact 
 Mid-size 
 Full-size 
 Custom 
 Hot rod 
 Lead sled 
 Lowrider 
 Street rod 
 T-bucket 
 Luxury 
 Compact executive 
 Executive 
 Personal 
 (MPV) 
 Compact 
 Mini 
 (SUV) 
 Compact 
 Crossover (CUV) 
 Mini 
 Sports 
 Grand tourer 
 Hot hatch 
 Muscle 
 Pony 
 Sport compact 
 Super 
 
 Antique 
 Classic 
 Economy 
 Leisure 
 Ute 
 Van 
 Voiturette 
 Body styles 
 2+2 
 Baquet 
 Barchetta 
 Berlinetta 
 Brougham 
 Cabrio coach 
 Cab over 
 Cabriolet / Convertible 
 Coupé 
 Coupé de Ville 
 Coupé utility 
 Drophead coupe (Convertible) 
 Fastback 
 Hardtop 
 Hatchback 
 Landaulet 
 Liftback 
 Limousine 
 Multi-stop truck 
 Notchback 
 Panel van 
 Phaeton 
 Pickup truck 
 Quad coupé 
 Retractable hardtop 
 Roadster 
 Runabout 
 Saloon / Sedan 
 Sedan delivery/Panel van 
 Sedanca de Ville (Coupé de Ville) 
 Shooting-brake 
 Spider / Spyder (Roadster) 
 Station wagon 
 Targa top 
 Torpedo 
 Touring 
 Town (Coupé de Ville) 
 T-top 
 Vis-à-vis 
 Specialized vehicles 
 Amphibious 
 Connected 
 Driverless (autonomous) 
 Hearse 
 Gyrocar 
 Roadable aircraft 
 Taxicab 
 Tow truck 
 Propulsion 
 Alternative fuel 
 Autogas 
 Biodiesel 
 Diesel 
 Electric  ( battery 
 NEV ) 
 Ethanol  ( E85 ) 
 Fuel cell 
 Gasoline / petrol  ( direct injection ) 
 Homogeneous charge compression ignition 
 Hybrid  ( plug-in ) 
 Hydrogen 
 Internal combustion 
 Liquid nitrogen 
 Steam 
 Drive wheels 
 Front-wheel 
 Rear-wheel 
 Two-wheel 
 Four-wheel 
 Six-wheel 
 Eight-wheel 
 Ten-wheel 
 Twelve-wheel 
 Engine position 
 Front 
 Mid 
 Rear 
 Layout   (engine / drive) 
 Front / front   
   Front mid / front   
   Rear / front   
   Front / rear   
   Rear mid / rear   
   Rear / rear   
   Front / four-wheel   
   Mid / four-wheel   
   Rear / four-wheel   
 Engine configuration ( internal combustion ) 
 Boxer 
 Flat 
 Four-stroke 
 H-block 
 Reciprocating 
 Single-cylinder 
 Straight 
 Two-stroke 
 V (Vee) 
 W engine 
 Wankel 
 
 Portal 
 Category 
 Template:EC car classification 
 
 v t e Mobile robots  and  uncrewed vehicles Aerial 
 Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) 
 Aerobot 
 Helicam 
 List of unmanned aerial vehicle applications 
 Unmanned combat air vehicle (UCAV) 
 Ornithopter 
 Ground Walking 
 Humanoid 
 Android 
 Hexapod 
 list 
 Other 
 Unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) 
 Automated guided vehicle (AGV) 
 Self - driving  car 
 Automatic train operation (ATO) 
 list 
 Underwater 
 Unmanned underwater vehicle (UUV) 
 Autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) 
 Intervention AUV (I-AUV) 
 Remotely operated underwater vehicle (ROUV) 
 Underwater glider 
 Surface 
 Unmanned surface vehicle (USV) 
 Space 
 Uncrewed spacecraft 
 Robotic spacecraft 
 list 
 Robotic telescope 
 Space probe 
 Cargo spacecraft 
 spaceflights to the ISS 
 Other 
 Domestic 
 Military 
 Rescue 
 Medical 
 Disability 
 Agricultural 
 BEAM robotics 
 Microbotics 
 Nanorobotics 
 Robotics 
 Robot locomotion 
 Autonomous robot 
 Autonomous logistics 
 Radio-controlled model 
 Remote control vehicle 
 Remote control animal 
 
 Categories 
 Radio control 
 Unmanned vehicles 
 
  
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1279
Cached time: 20200729181602
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
Complications: [vary‐revision‐sha1]
CPU time usage: 3.220 seconds
Real time usage: 3.571 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 19050/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 738784/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 14969/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 21/40
Expensive parser function count: 24/500
Unstrip recursion depth: 1/20
Unstrip post‐expand size: 1305055/5000000 bytes
Lua time usage: 1.822/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 9.55 MB/50 MB
Lua Profile:
    recursiveClone <mwInit.lua:41>                                   240 ms       11.9%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::gsub                               180 ms        8.9%
    ?                                                                160 ms        7.9%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::callParserFunction                 160 ms        7.9%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::sub                                120 ms        5.9%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::getAllExpandedArguments            100 ms        5.0%
    Scribunto_LuaSandboxCallback::plain                              100 ms        5.0%
    dataWrapper <mw.lua:661>                                          80 ms        4.0%
    (for generator) <mw.lua:673>                                      60 ms        3.0%
    date                                                              60 ms        3.0%
    [others]                                                         760 ms       37.6%
Number of Wikibase entities loaded: 0/400
 
 
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00% 3021.522      1 -total
 62.66% 1893.231      1 Template:Reflist
 25.75%  778.154    167 Template:Cite_web
 12.60%  380.845     54 Template:Cite_journal
 11.91%  359.794     77 Template:Cite_news
  3.99%  120.668     12 Template:Fix
  3.67%  110.963     66 Template:Convert
  3.16%   95.394     11 Template:Navbox
  3.05%   92.137      7 Template:Citation_needed
  2.80%   84.686     14 Template:Cite_book
 
  Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:245926-0!canonical and timestamp 20200729181610 and revision id 970174910
  
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title= Self - driving _car&oldid=970174910 " 
 Categories :  Self - driving   cars Automotive technologies Emerging technologies Robotics Automation Hidden categories:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list CS1 Russian-language sources (ru) CS1 errors: missing periodical CS1 Chinese-language sources (zh) CS1 German-language sources (de) Wikipedia articles needing reorganization from March 2018 Use dmy dates from January 2020 Articles to be split from May 2020 All articles to be split All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2019 Wikipedia articles with style issues from November 2019 All articles with style issues All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from August 2019 All articles with failed verification Articles with failed verification from November 2019 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2019 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from November 2019 Articles containing potentially dated statements from March 2016 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2019 Articles containing potentially dated statements from June 2018 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2012 Articles containing potentially dated statements from November 2016 Articles with unsourced statements from February 2019 Wikipedia articles that are excessively detailed from August 2016 All articles that are excessively detailed Wikipedia articles with style issues from August 2016 Wikipedia articles with style issues from February 2019 Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from February 2019 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from April 2019 Articles needing additional references from February 2018 All articles needing additional references Commons category link is locally defined Articles prone to spam from December 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Navigation menu 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Personal tools 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in 
 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Namespaces 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Article Talk 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 
 Variants 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Views 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Read Edit View history 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 
 More 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Navigation 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Wikipedia store 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Contribute 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Help Community portal Recent changes Upload file 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Tools 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Print/export 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Download as PDF Printable version 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 In other projects 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 Wikimedia Commons 
 
 
  Please do not use role attribute as CSS selector, it is deprecated.  
 
 
 Languages 
 
  Please do not use the .body class, it is deprecated.  
 
  Please do not use the .menu class, it is deprecated.  
 العربية Azərbaycanca Български Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Lëtzebuergesch Magyar Монгол Nederlands 日本語 Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Polski Português Română Русский Simple English Slovenščina Suomi Svenska தமிழ் Türkçe Українська اردو 中文 
 Edit links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  This page was last edited on 29 July 2020, at 18:16  (UTC) . 
 Text is available under the  Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the  Terms of Use  and  Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the  Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. 
 
 
 Privacy policy 
 About Wikipedia 
 Disclaimers 
 Contact Wikipedia 
 Developers 
 Statistics 
 Cookie statement 
 Mobile view 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 