 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.techradar.com/news/self-driving-cars  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-29  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start self   driving   cars HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  html 
 Self-driving cars: your complete guide | TechRadar 
 
 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] 
 
 Skip to main content 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TechRadar   The source for Tech Buying Advice 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 RSS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please deactivate your ad blocker in order to see our subscription offer 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
How To
 
 
 
 
Reviews
 
 
 
 
Phones
 
 
 
 
TVs
 
 
 
 
Laptops
 
 
 
 
Cameras
 
 
 
 
Deals
 
 
 
 More  
 
 Wearables 
 Tablets 
 Computing 
 Audiovisual 
 Gaming 
 Smart Home 
 Appliances 
 Car Tech 
 Components 
 Downloads 
 VPN 
 Web hosting 
 News 
 Video 
 Magazine 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pro 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trending
 
 
   iPhone 12 
   Back to School sales 
   PS5 
   Disney+ 
   Best Laptop 
   Best Phone 
   VPN 
  Start Trending Subset // 
  End Trending Subset // 
 
 
 
 TechRadar is supported by its audience. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.  Learn more 
 
 
 
 Home 
 News 
 Car Tech 
 
 Self - driving   cars : your complete guide to autonomous vehicles 
 
By
 Michael Hicks ,  
 Michelle Fitzsimmons 
 07 June 2019 
 
 How do they work, are they safe, and when will they arrive? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Shares   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Image credit: metamorworks/Shutterstock 
 
 
 
 Self - driving  car technology is advancing every day, and it's only a matter of time before fully driverless vehicles appear on public streets. Almost daily, there's a new development in the driverless car space, and nearly every major car manufacturer, ride-sharing service and tech company from  Apple  to  Google  has bought into the driverless car industry.  And, if you take all the driverless car chatter at face value, we’re only a couple years away from a utopian society where  cars  will navigate and park by themselves, and accidents become a rarity.  In fact, Google wants to have a  self - driving  ride-hailing service on the road by the end of this year.  Apple  self - driving   cars , meanwhile, are spotted regularly,  driving  down the road with rigs housing everything that's needed to run a  self - driving  experience.  While the driverless car industry continues to grow, one unfortunate turn in the journey of  self - driving   cars  is a number of  accidents , some of them fatal, which show the technology that  cars  use to spot pedestrians and other obstacles and avoid collisions still has a long way to go. With more companies applying for permits to test driverless  cars  on public roads, and more public scrutiny on the tech than ever before, we thought it best to break down how companies like Apple, Google, Uber, Tesla and others train artificial intelligence to see the road—and which AIs might have a blind spot.  We've also gathered the latest details on which countries allow public driverless car testing, which companies are developing the smartest  self - driving  artificial intelligence (AI) models, and what the future of the driverless car industry could bring in the next few years.  What is a  self - driving  car? Simply put, a truly driverless car must be capable of navigating to a destination, avoiding obstacles, and parking without any human intervention. To accomplish this, a driverless car must have an artificial intelligence system that senses its surroundings, processes the visual data to determine how to avoid collisions, operates car machinery like the steering and brake, and uses GPS to track the car's current location and destination.  Without an AI,  cars  cannot be truly driverless.  Companies like Google’s Waymo put have put AI inside virtual  cars  and have the vehicles 'drive'  billions of virtual miles , throwing every perceivable obstacle and situation at the  cars  to see how they respond.  The AI learns what actions lead to crashes, and slowly learns how it should drive on real roads. Waymo's visualization of what a driverless car 'sees' on the road (Image credit: Waymo)  (Image credit: Waymo) To perceive visual surroundings, most  self - driving   cars  have some combination of three visual systems: video cameras, radar and lidar.  The AI synthesizes the data from these different systems to fully map out its surroundings and watch out for unexpected obstacles.  Most driverless  cars  require all three: AIs require visual cameras and deep learning software to interpret objects like street lights and stop signs, and while radar catches most obstacles instantly, it’s not as good as spotting smaller obstacles as lidar.  What is lidar? Lidar sensors emit light waves in all directions; the light waves reflect off of objects and return to the sensor, measuring the distance between car and object.  Bouncing to and from the sensor millions of times in a single second, the light waves create an instant, constantly updating 3D map that will spot obstacles instantaneously. Still, some vehicles with autonomous capabilities like  Tesla's Model 3  don’t use lidar; Elon Musk famously  called  lidar an overly-expensive “crutch”, and that cameras and radar should suffice.  One thing to consider: the Model 3, along with pretty much every other “ self - driving  car” currently out there, aren’t truly “driverless”.  Most people tend to use terms like “driverless”, “autonomous” and “ self - driving ” as interchangeable.  But, there are significant differences in the tech required for an “autonomous” AI that can only handle highways and a truly “driverless” or “ self - driving ” car that doesn’t even need a  steering wheel  or human operator to park or navigate.  Tesla's autonomous (but not driverless) Autopilot feature (Image credit: Tesla)  Some car companies tend to fog the issue by claiming cruise control tech for  driving  straight and avoiding obstacles is “ self - driving ”.  Mercedes-Benz actually had to  pull ads  that claimed its 2017 E-Class was a “vehicle that could drive itself.”  But, until AI tech is sophisticated enough to drive somewhere like a school crossing without any danger to pedestrians, most,  though not all , governments won’t allow  cars  to drive without a human seated behind the wheel. Why should this matter to you? Because some drivers are feeling safe enough to l eave the driver's seat  while their car is in motion, putting pedestrians (and themselves) at risk. It's vitally important that the autonomous vs driverless distinction become more clear to the public.  So, while we’re covering autonomous  cars  in this piece, don’t mistake them for being driverless; most of them have at least a few years before their AIs can properly navigate the world without a human crutch.  Why do we need  self - driving   cars ? For commuters, the answer is obvious: a chance to catch some extra shut-eye, get work done or watch Netflix instead of spending hours navigating through traffic.  But why have companies invested an  estimated  $80 billion and years of work into this technology? For starters, it could simply be a case of jumping on the bandwagon. Pretty much every major car company has developed or implemented some kind of autopilot technology into their  cars . Not having that tech available could make a brand look out of date. But, at least some companies have bold business plans for  self - driving  tech beyond just fitting in with everyone else. Most car brands are very concerned with their crash safety ratings. If driverless car tech will truly reduce the  rate of accidents , car companies will want to push this tech forward. AI safety ratings could even become a future metric for prospective car buyers to look at. Tech for your car: these are the  best dash cams  around Ride-sharing services like Uber and  Lyft , meanwhile, plan to make their taxis driverless, which would mean not having to pay human drivers.  In January, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said he wanted to have  self - driving  taxis  picking up passengers  by 2019, and that 20% or more of Uber's fleet could be driverless.  However,  Uber's  self - driving  car  ambitions have hit a major roadblock, which we'll detail further on Pages 2 and 3. Other companies like Ford hope to incorporate their  cars  into city-wide networks that will track traffic conditions and available parking, so the company's  self - driving   cars  will reach destinations faster than other  cars .  Then, of course, Ford will sell its  self - driving   cars  as a service to delivery or ride-sharing companies; Ford has already  partnered  with Domino's and Postmates to deliver packages and pizza in a car that's not actually  self - driving , but pretends to be in order to gauge the public's reaction. Pizza delivery meets  self - driving  (Image credit: Ford)  Most of these companies don’t want consumers actually  buying  their  self - driving   cars .  But, at least one car industry expert  claimed  that car companies want their driverless tech to be a “regularly recurring subscription model”, where customers, even used-car buyers, have to keep paying for the right  not  to drive.  Whatever the reasons, these companies have invested too much money in driverless car AIs to stop now, despite the fact that many countries haven’t fully approved the use of  self - driving   cars  yet.  Businesses clearly seem to think it’s only a matter of time before driverless  cars  are on the road. Where are  self - driving   cars  being trialled? While  self - driving  car companies have convinced many state and national governments to let them test their AIs on public roads, nearly all governments strictly limit the  cars  from  driving  outside of testing tracks, with a few notable exceptions. In the United States, 33 states  have enacted  legislation to allow for limited  self - driving  tests, but only a few states and cities let AIs be in control on public roads—and even then almost always with strict human oversight at all times.  The exception to this rule is Phoenix, Arizona, where Waymo has been  testing  self - driving   cars  without safety drivers  on the city's streets.  Waymo's  self - driving  minivan (Image credit: Waymo)  Uber was also testing  self - driving   cars  in Arizona until a high-profile fatal accident led to the state’s governor to  suspend  Uber's testing privileges indefinitely.  Uber eventually announced the closure of its  self - driving  car program in Arizona on May 23. Its program remains suspended elsewhere in the country. California is another hot spot for  self - driving   cars , both because Silicon Valley hosts so many tech companies and because California no longer requires a human behind the wheel if companies can prove their AI is up to the task.  Cities in the US where you’re most likely to spot driverless  cars  include Mountain View and San Francisco, California; Phoenix, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, Miami, Austin, Detroit and New York City. Europe, home to several huge car manufacturers, has many receptive countries that allow for limited driverless testing.  Germany recently approved Volkswagen to  begin testing   self -parking  cars  at the Hamburg airport.  For its part,  Volvo is testing driverless  cars  and buses in Stockholm, Sweden. In the Netherlands, Amber Mobility  plans to launch  a Zipcar-like service of electric driverless  cars  in several Dutch cities in mid-2018.  Amber Mobility will use the BMW i3 for its driverless car service (Image credit: BMW)  In the United Kingdom, however, the government recently initiated the  UK Autodrive initiative  to push autonomous innovation, but, at the same time, the government is also conducting a  three-year review  of  self - driving  technology’s safety implications, and hasn’t approved testing on public roads yet.  Australia, by contrast, has begun some public testing, but some reports say the country is  lagging behind  other countries in scale.  In Asia, countries like China, Japan and Singapore have enabled companies to begin testing  self - driving  taxis, but always with a human behind the wheel. Uber rival  Didi Chuxing  is one company leading China’s push for  self - driving  tech.  As for  self - driving  tech found in  cars  like Tesla's? You can find that in pretty much  every nation , although most road laws dictate that drivers keep their hands on the wheel and eyes on the road at all times.  So, who's making driverless  cars ? The answer: Everyone! OK, that's not entirely true, and you probably want more details than that.  Major tech companies, from Apple to Google to Uber, have been working in the  self - driving  car space. Apple's  self - driving  car was recently spotted by TechRadar, and we've got a full breakdown of everything having to do with the  Apple Car  in our in-depth guide. Almost all of the top-selling car brands in the US— Ford, GM, Toyota, Honda, Volkswagen, Nissan, Volvo, BMW and more—have been working on driverless  cars  for years, often in collaboration with components providers like  Nvidia  and Intel. We’ve got the breakdown on the biggest players in the driverless car space today, plus give insight into which of them look most likely to achieve truly driverless  cars  in the near future.  Apple  self - driving   cars The Apple Car is a long-standing Silicon Valley rumor, and while initial reports indicated the tech giant would build its own driverless electric vehicle, the story has changed drastically in the last several years. For its part, Apple has  admitted  that it's interested in creating the autonomous systems that run  self - driving   cars , and not an actual car itself.  Still, Apple is actively testing its  self - driving  car tech, evidenced by several car  sightings  in the last few years. Though the vehicles lack proprietary markings, the  cars  are bedecked in all the gear needed to run  self - driving  systems and are often seen  driving  around Apple office buildings and into Apple complex parking lots.  TechRadar spotted one Apple Car in May 2018 as it was  driving  on a public road and going into the parking lot of a cluster of Apple office buildings in Sunnyvale, California. The car was sporting a different-looking rig than we've seen on the vehicles previously. Here's exclusive video of the Apple  self - driving  car we saw in May 2018 Apple's  self - driving   cars  are coming out of the shadows and onto public roads, but that's not all that's circulating about Apple's automotive project. In May 2018, it was  revealed  by the California DMV that Apple's autonomous car permit now covers 55  cars  and 83 drivers, giving it the second biggest autonomous car fleet in California, behind GM Cruise's fleet of 104 and ahead of Waymo's 51. A recent patent also showed Apple's plans to install VR devices into its driverless  cars  to entertain passengers, another sign that Apple is working on systems for  self - driving   cars  and not necessarily vehicles themselves. A second newly discovered patent describes " intent signals " as a method passengers would use to indicate where they want the car to go. The patent suggests a joystick, a phone's accelerometer, or voice commands could be used to suggest alterations to a route, choose an open parking space, or instruct the car to park close to a certain part of a store, like near a specific entrance.  All of this points to Apple's interest and active development in the driverless car space. We wouldn't be surprised to see Apple's  self - driving  project come to light in the next one to three years. Google's driverless  cars Waymo  self - driving  minivan (Image credit: Waymo)  Waymo , the  self - driving  car division of Google's parent company, Alphabet, was formally launched in late 2016, but its  self - driving  tech has been in development since 2009.  And that near-decade of work has paid off in arguably the most reliable driverless car we’ve seen to date.  Disengagement—when a human driver has to take control of a  self - driving  car—is the primary metric by which automakers gauge their  self - driving  AI's technical skill. And Waymo’s  cars   lead the pack : Waymo  self - driving   cars  disengage 0.18 times every one thousand miles.  For context, if a Waymo car drove across the United States and back, a human would on average have to intervene one time. Only GM’s  self - driving   cars  come close to that level of disengagement, averaging about 1,000 fewer miles per disengagement.   How has Waymo’s team achieve this level of reliability? With a powerful system of six lidar sensors that instantly detect any potential hazards, and a deep learning system sophisticated enough to respond instantly to obstacles and weather hazards.  Waymo collects its lidar, radar and camera feed information into an aggregate map of the surrounding road, which the company calls x-view.  The video above shows a stylized version of how x-view can detect people and avoid accidents.  Waymo’s  cars  have driven six million miles on public roads thus far, along with 2.7  billion  virtual miles inside of traffic simulators.  Sometimes the car's ability to drive itself can't keep it out of every accident though, as was seen in Arizona in 2018 when an oncoming car swerved across the road and  crashed into a Waymo van , injuring the test driver inside. Still, Waymo hopes to add to its fleet's mileage on public roads in the next couple of years, as it rigs 20,000 new all-electric  Jaguar I-Pace  cars  and an immense 62,000  Fiat Chrysler minivans  with Waymo AI tech built in.  Waymo's partnership with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) could eventually mean  self - driving  FCA-built vehicles becoming available directly to consumers. Waymo's bold goal is to launch a “driverless ride-hailing service” in Phoenix in 2018, and eventually expand nationwide.  Waymo has recently been  eyeing Europe  as another area for expansion, but it may need to rely on strategic partnerships to be competitive there. Waymo's parent company Alphabet has a shaky relationship with the EU, and it lacks the brand recognition and loyalty that its European competitors have. We’ll have to wait and see if Uber’s fatal  self - driving  car crash in Arizona or Waymo's own collision stall any of the company's plans, however.  Uber's driverless  cars Uber  self - driving   cars  (Image credit: Uber)  Uber ’s relatively late start to the  self - driving  game hasn’t stopped the ride-sharing company from zealously testing its AI tech on public roads, hoping to beat Waymo to the punch and start its  own driverless taxi service .  After purchasing  Otto , a  self - driving  truck company in 2015, Uber’s ATP developed its own system of cameras, radar and lidar to track obstacles, using a  Nvidia GPU  to power its AI tech.  ATP reportedly settled on just  one  lidar sensor, compared to Waymo’s six, to install on its 24,000  Volvo XC90  SUVs.  Uber's  self -drivings car have driven over one million miles on public roads, though its disengagement statistics don't stack up to Waymo’s: Uber reportedly only makes it  13 miles  on average before a human must intervene.  Though it began with gusto, Uber's  self - driving  car program is currently in limbo. After a fatal accident in Arizona in March 2018, the state's governor suspended Uber's ability to test  self - driving   cars  in the state. Uber had already shut down tests nationwide following the accident.  Then, in May, Uber announced it was shutting down its  self - driving  car program in Arizona completely. It will continue tests in San Francisco, Toronto and Pittsburgh, whenever tests resume.  When Uber's tests begin again, they will be in a much more limited fashion than before. As far as when they start again, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi hopes to see his autonomous fleet  driving  in the next couple months. Uber plans to take findings from the National Transportation Safety Board's (NTSB) investigation into the fatal accident to make changes to its program. The company is also undergoing an internal safety review.  The  preliminary NTSB report  reveals that while the vehicle had an automatic emergency braking feature, this was disabled because the car was in "computer mode." Citing Uber, the report says the feature is disabled to prevent erratic  driving  behavior. Though the car detected it needed to make an emergency braking maneuver 1.3 seconds before it struck the pedestrian who later died of her injuries, the system doesn't alert the driver to take control of the vehicle.  You can read more on what is in the initial NTSB report into the fatal Uber  self - driving  car crash  here .  Uber patent (Image credit: Uber)  (Image credit: USPTO) In light of the accident and subsequent fall-out, Uber’s contributions to the driverless car industry have been overshadowed.  Work that Uber had done included patenting a way to prevent motion sickness in passengers with a “ Sensory Simulation System ” that would adjust seats, air flow and in-car lighting to make riders more comfortable.  In another patent, Uber outlined how its  cars  could signal pedestrians or cyclists with flashing lights or a bumper text display—”intention outlets” that would help  cars  feel less inscrutable and difficult to predict.  What's more, Uber has developed an  autonomous truck service  that will make freighting goods across the country much easier for truck drivers.  Despite the work that it's done in the  self - driving  car space, Uber has a big uphill battle before the public trusts its autonomous vehicles again. One way Uber is eyeing as a means for getting autonomous vehicles on the road without as great of safety concerns is by  partnering with Waymo . Uber's CEO has said the companies are in talks, trying to bring some of Waymo's vehicles to Uber's driverless car fleet. However, given Uber and Waymo's past legal battle over trade secret theft, the grounds for a new partnership seem shaky. Tesla's driverless  cars Tesla Model X (Image credit: Tesla)  Tesla Model X, Model X and Model 3  cars  all feature the latest version of  Autopilot , a sensor system of cameras, sonar and radar built for autonomous  driving  on highways.  Tesla's AI can perform tasks like preemptively shift lanes before an exit or to avoid slower traffic, and can autosteer around more windy highways.  Once you leave the freeway, your car will warn you to take control of steering.  As of early 2016, Tesla owners had allegedly driven  hundred of millions  of miles in Autopilot mode. And, because Tesla scrapes data from all of its  cars , it's able to gather information on apparent errors to improve Autopilot over time. That dwarfs the mere millions of public road miles that most  self - driving   cars  have achieved.  Tesla's Autopilot can sense objects hundred of meters away (Image credit: Tesla)  (Image credit: Tesla) Of course, Tesla’s miles are autonomous, not driverless.  Tesla does sell models with “full  self - driving  capability” on its  website , but these models apparently have only double the cameras as a regular Tesla and no other major changes.  Moreover, Tesla admits that enabling this mode would require “extensive software validation and regulatory approval” that isn’t yet available.  Still, many drivers tend to treat Autopilot like a  self - driving  mode rather than as a driver assistance systems, which has led to serious accidents, including in recent months. One recent crash killed a Tesla Model X driver when his car  crashed  on a freeway in California. The driver had ignored Autopilot’s warnings to assume control of the vehicle. The NTSB is still investigating the crash.  Aside from some other high-profile  crashes , Tesla insists that its Autopilot and  Autosteer  tech generally lead to a 40-50%  reduction in accidents . The below tweet shows how its tech can pick up on potential hazards most humans might miss.  Original video, authorisation from the owner. Essential, no one could predict the accident but the radar did and acted by emergency braking. pic.twitter.com/70MySRiHGR December 27, 2016 For now, Tesla hasn’t announced any recent news on true driverless tech, and no one has spotted any  self - driving  patents by the company, either.  It’s unclear if Tesla is playing things close to the chest, or if it's content sticking with what it's done so far while other companies duke it out over more challenging AI goals.  The other major players Mercedes-Benz  self - driving  concept (Image credit: Mercedes-Benz)  Outside of these three major players, many other companies are maneuvering to accelerate public testing, or even launch for-profit driverless car services, in the next few years.  General Motors, the runner-up to Waymo in AI reliability, plans to start testing its  cars   in Manhattan  this year.  New York is something of an Everest for  self - driving  companies to climb: building an AI capable of navigating the city's traffic and hoards of pedestrians is no easy task. GM's fully automated Chevy Volts each have a $5 million insurance policy for any potential crashes, and can’t enter any school or construction zones.  If the  cars  can pass this gauntlet, GM's AI could be powerful enough for the  Chevy Cruise AV , a truly driverless car without a steering wheel or gas pedal.  But, GM isn't going to tackle this challenge alone. Japanese company SoftBank is offering $2.2 billion in backing to GM for a 20% stake in GM's  self - driving  department. Of that money, $1.35 billion is withheld until GM's autonomous vehicles are commercially ready. Volkswagen autonomous parking demo (Image credit: Volkswagen)  Volkswagen, conversely, is braving the chaotic battleground known as  parking garages  for its testing.  At the Hamburg Airport in Germany, VW car owners can simply drop off their  cars  in front of the garage and activate a smartphone app; the car then  self -drives to a free parking space, using its GPS and cameras to navigate. Eventually, VW has designs to make your driverless car maintain itself, and even do your chores. The company  stated  how its  cars  will be able to speak with city systems to find free parking, or drive themselves to gas stations or car washes for service. Other big name car companies haven’t made their plans public for driverless  cars , but do have dates in mind for when their AI tech will be ready.  Hyundai hopes to have its  cars  fully  driverless on the road by 2021 , and  Ford  also aims to have its driverless AI and traffic-tracking technology up and running in the same year.  Meanwhile, Google’s rivals in the smartphone industry also have aspirations to take the search giant on in the  self - driving  industry.  Samsung  recently got permission from the California DMV to test autonomous vehicles.  And even Huawei has jumped into the game, showing off a  self - driving  car earlier this year that ran entirely off of camera data from a smartphone. Finally, Lyft hopes to beat Uber at its own game. Lyft launched its own  self - driving  division  last year, and have since teamed up with  Ford  and acquired the help of an automotive parts supplier,  Magna , for its  self - driving  car machinery.  With so many companies hoping to launch  self - driving  services and ramp up testing in the next couple of years, driverless car tech must be up to the challenge to avoid a rise in accidents as a result.  Both Uber and Tesla have recently been embroiled in scandals surrounding their  self - driving  AI after two fatal accidents this year.  Below, we’ve laid out the most high-profile accidents to take place in the driverless car industry so far.  After this, you'll find our predictions how the industry could grow in the next few years—if accidents don’t derail it entirely.  Self - driving  car accidents In 2016, when Autopilot was still newly implemented technology, a Tesla enthusiast  fatally crashed into a trailer  while Autopilot was engaged.  At the time, there was awareness that Autopilot had trouble picking up trailers on its cameras, but nothing had been done to fix the issue before the crash.  The incident was investigated by the US's NTSB, which initially said Tesla’s AI wasn’t at fault but eventually stated in 2017 that Autopilot’s  “operational limitations”  played a role in the accident. The agency warned that drivers using the system became too complacent to respond to any potential threats.  That pattern would somewhat repeat itself in a fatal 2018 accident, when a Tesla Model X driver crashed into a concrete barrier while using Autopilot.  According to  Tesla , "The driver had received several visual and one audible hands-on warning earlier in the drive and the driver's hands were not detected on the wheel for six seconds prior to the collision”.  The NTSB is also investigating this incident, and expressed displeasure that Tesla released its own results of the crash before the NTSB could publicly make its own statement. Tesla CEO Elon Musk claimed he had a duty to tell his customers the truth for safety reasons. Lot of respect for NTSB, but NHTSA regulates  cars , not NTSB, which is an advisory body. Tesla releases critical crash data affecting public safety immediately & always will. To do otherwise would be unsafe. April 2, 2018 Prior to this accident, an Uber car with driverless technology  struck a pedestrian  as she walked outside of a crosswalk at night. This fatal collision led to Uber suspending all of its  self - driving  operations indefinitely.  As with Tesla, the NTSB investigation of the crash is still ongoing, though the agency's  preliminary report  into the accident has been issued. Some incredibly sad news out of Arizona. We’re thinking of the victim’s family as we work with local law enforcement to understand what happened. https://t.co/cwTCVJjEuz March 19, 2018 As for Google's most high-profile incident, it happened in March 2016 when a  self - driving  Lexus SUV attempted to make a turn in front of a bus, with the car's AI assuming the bus would slow down to allow it to do so.  However, the bus didn’t stop, and the Google  self - driving  car struck the bus’s side at 2 mph.  In its monthly  DMV report , Google detailed the crash, and said it had adjusted its AI’s parameters to recognize that bus drivers are less likely to give right-of-way.  Most recently, a  self - driving  Waymo minivan was involved in an  accident  in May 2018, in Chandler, Arizona. But in this case, Waymo’s AI was not to be blamed for the incident.  According to the Chandler Police department, a Honda sedan  ran a red light , then drove into oncoming traffic to avoid another car in an intersection, swerving directly into the Waymo minivan’s path. The human driver behind the wheel suffered minor injuries. Waymo released footage of the incident, which makes it clear that neither the AI nor the human operator could have reasonably anticipated the crash.  Local police initially claimed that Waymo’s car had been in autonomous mode at the time of the crash, but later affirmed Waymo’s assertion that the car had been in manual mode, and they stressed from the start that neither Waymo nor the SUV driver was considered at fault for the incident.  Until the investigation is resolved, Uber's  self - driving   cars  vehicles are staying off the streets (Image credit: Uber)  Speaking with  Forbes  following Uber's fatal accident, Waymo CEO John Krafcik said that, “We're very confident that our car could have handled that situation."  Waymo will probably face significant backlash if it does face a serious accident of its own after Krafcik's bold claim. Of course, we'll have to wait until authorities conclude their investigations into the recent  self - driving  car accidents before we can fully assess how safe the tech is and what steps need to be taken to avoid future accidents.  What does the future hold? The history of the driverless car industry has been one of bold promises, high-profile fiascos, and general uncertainty about the future.  It’s truly unclear whether governments will ever let  self - driving   cars  operate without a human operator on a national level, though it seems we are steadily moving in that direction. A research team found that deep learning networks in  self - driving   cars  are prone to make  thousands of incorrect choices  when faced with tricky scenarios.  The researchers are hoping to develop a more complete test for  self - driving  car companies to check whether their AIs can navigate these problems. But, in the meantime, more accidents could be in store.   This DeepXplore car crashes into things so real  cars  won't (Image credit: DeepXplore)  However, while accidents will play a big role in the industry’s prospects, perhaps the most important issue will be whether  self - driving   cars  prove to be safe not just from AI malfunctions, but also malicious AI attacks.  A recent report called  The Malicious Use of Artificial Intelligence , written by academic researchers and Elon Musk’s  OpenAI  watchdog group, detailed how hackers could infiltrate the AI of a  self - driving  network and cause  cars  to ignore safety laws.  Without protections in place, driverless  cars  could even become weaponized for potential attacks. The researchers recommended that companies work with one another and with lawmakers to preempt potential hacking vulnerabilities.  Will rivals like Waymo and Uber be willing to share such data, or will they hoard it? One can hope that companies will see the benefits of working together for the well-being of all.  Will driverless  cars  get radical redesigns like this, or still look like  cars  we have today? (Image credit: Mercedes-Benz)  If  self - driving   cars  do take off, though, we can expect a future where companies rely more frequently on autonomous tech, potentially at the expense of jobs. Amazon, for example, hopes to lower shipping costs by employing  driverless delivery vehicles .  If anything is uncertain, it’s whether you or I will own  self - driving   cars  of our own. A collection of ride-sharing companies—ZipCar, Uber, Citymapper, Lyft and BlaBlaCar—all released a  policy document  recommending that “autonomous vehicles (AVS) in dense urban areas should be operated only in shared fleets.” It’s possible that  self - driving  car companies will continue to lobby governments for “shared fleet” exclusivity, so that you can only subscribe to their  self - driving  services instead of owning your own vehicle.  Of course, car manufacturers like GM and Ford will likely want to sell their  self - driving   cars  to consumers directly, so they might lobby against such proposals. Ultimately, with billions of dollars invested, we believe these companies will likely make driverless  cars  a commonplace reality within the next decade—though the road there might be littered with legislative speed bumps and public distrust.  Regardless, get ready for future generations to roll their eyes when you talk about how, back in your day, you had to drive to work yourself. Everything you need to know about  electric vehicles 
 
 
 
 See more Car tech news  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    No tag-links    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tech deals, prizes and latest news 
 
 
 
 Get the best tech deals, reviews, product advice, competitions, unmissable tech news and more! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you for signing up to TechRadar. You will receive a verification email shortly. 
 
 
 There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again. 
 
 
 No spam, we promise. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details without your permission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Most Popular 
 
 
 Most Shared 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 Obsidian beat Starfield to the punch, and Avowed could do the same to Elder Scrolls 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 The iPhone 12 and Apple Watch 6 launch date might have leaked 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 AMD Ryzen 4000 desktop APUs are now available from retailers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 Best free games 2020: the top free games to download on PC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 How to watch the Marvel movies in order 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 Xbox Series X release month seemingly confirmed by Microsoft CFO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 Windows 10’s next update could come with bigger changes including a new Start menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 5 new TV technologies that are changing the way you watch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 The iPhone 12 and Apple Watch 6 launch date might have leaked 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 Apple Watch 6 release date, price, news and rumors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site . 
 
 
 About Us 
 Terms and conditions 
 Privacy policy 
 Cookies policy 
 Advertise with us 
 Web notifications 
 
 
 ©
Future US, Inc. 11 West 42nd Street, 15th Floor,
New York,
NY 10036.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Google Tag Manager  
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
 
  document assets - added by the article itself  
   
 
 
 
 