 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.digitaltrends.com/cars/the-future-of-self-driving-cars/  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-29  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start self   driving   cars HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  html 
 The Future of Self-Driving Cars | Digital Trends 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  Begin GPT  
 
  End GPT  
 
 
 
 
 
  Google Tag Manager  
 
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
		Back to Menu	 
 
 
 
					Search				 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Best Products Best Laptops Best Headphones Best Games Best Game Consoles Best Tablets Best Drones Best  Cars Best Routers Best Phones Best Printers Best Speakers Best TVs Best Soundbars Best Home Security Systems Best Cameras Best Smartwatches Best Smart Home Devices Best Refrigerators Best Dishwashers Best Washing Machines Best Streaming Devices Best Desktops Best Coffee Machines Versus More Best Products Product Reviews Laptop Reviews TV Reviews Tablet Reviews Game Reviews Soundbar Reviews Camera Reviews Printer Reviews Drone Reviews Headphone Reviews Fitness Tracker Reviews Phone Reviews Monitor Reviews Smartwatch Reviews Appliance Reviews Home Security Reviews Speaker Reviews Desktop Reviews Car Reviews Streaming Device Reviews Smart Home Device Reviews All Reviews News Animal Crossing Mobile Home Theater Computing 5G Gaming Cars Photography Coronavirus Streaming Media Wearables Entertainment Culture Smart Home Small Business Smart Cities Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Internet of Things (IoT) Samsung More News Original Series Original Series Digital Trends Live Tech for Change Homework School's Out Bold Ideas Innovate / Collaborate Women With Byte Special Features Video Series Trends with Benefits Robots Everywhere What Comes Next Vs. Desk Envy Explained The Deets More Originals Buying Guides QLED vs. OLED TV Which Instant Pot Should You Buy? 4K TV Buying Guide Soundbar buying guide Google Home vs. Amazon Echo Laptop Buying Guide MacBook Pro vs MacBook Air Nintendo Switch vs. Switch Lite: Which is better? iPhone SE vs iPhone 11 Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y MacBook Air Buying Guide Printer Buying Guide More Buying Guides Deals Best iPad Deals Best Apple Watch Deals Best iPhone Deals Best MacBook Deals Best 4K TV Deals Best Smartwatch Deals Best Laptop Deals Best Smartphone Deals Best Microsoft Surface Pro Deals Best Cheap Chromebook Deals Best Cheap Kindle Deals Best Cheap Gaming Laptop Deals More Deals Downloads Categories Browsers Office & Productivity Development Tools Learning Games Internet Music & Video Customization Security & VPN Social & Messaging OS & Tools Platforms Windows Mac Android iOS More Downloads More Social Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Pinterest RSS Newsletter YouTube More Careers Freelance Opportunities About Digital Trends The Manual Advertise with Us DT en Español Creative Resources Awards We Offer Press Sponsored Content   
 
			Menu		 
 
 
 
 Sign up for newsletters Trending: Live: Big Tech CEOs testify before Congress How to watch the Big Tech hearing Twitter censors links promoting hateful speech Panasonic RB-M700 review Samsung Galaxy Unpacked Paper Mario: The Origami King review   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cars   
					The future of  self - driving   cars   
						From cruise control to automatic parking, all the steps to  self - driving   cars   
 
 
			By
							 
					Will Nicol				 
 
 
		February 26, 2019	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Self - driving   cars  are one of the  hottest topics in the world of tech right now , and it’s not hard to see why. For as much as people romanticize  driving , it can be a monotonous, tiring activity, and even good drivers can make mistakes that end in gruesome accidents. If  cars  can drive themselves and use advanced tech to avoid accidents entirely, wouldn’t that be nice? 
 Automation isn’t a binary concept, however, it’s a spectrum, with varying degrees as humans hand over responsibilities to the machine. 
 How do we define a  self - driving  car? 
 The society of Automotive Engineers created an international standard for measuring the degrees of automation in  cars , called J3016. 
 
 The scale runs from 0 to 5, with 0 being no automation (so, good old-fashioned  cars  like the Model T or ‘70s sports  cars ). From levels 1 to 2, the person in the driver’s seat has to, at the very least, supervise the car, even if they’re using support features to steer or maintain acceleration. For example, cruise control can keep a car going at a constant speed without the driver needing to think about maintaining speed, but the driver is still in control of the car, and 
 Once you get to levels 3-5, the car can drive itself (for levels 3 and 4, only under certain predetermined conditions). 
 SAE takes into account whether features added to a car are “driver support” features, that might make it easier to brake, but still leave the act of  driving  to the driver. 
 SAE 
 Level 2  cars  can use cameras, ultrasonic sensors, RADAR and LIDAR to scan surroundings, then uses artificial intelligence to determine whether something is a distinct object, whether it’s a human or another car, and so on. These “ self - driving ”  cars  still are far from perfect, however, and sometimes have trouble recognizing objects. 
 Automation could improve shipping, making it so cross country trucker no longer need to focus on  driving  during the long, empty stretches of highway they spend much of their time on. Trucking companies are investing in this tech, eager to reduce the risk of costly accidents. 
 At level 3, the car is using “conditional automation.” At this level, the car can drive itself in many conditions, and doesn’t need the human driver to monitor, although it will, in certain conditions, request the driver take the wheel. 
 At level 4, the car can drive in most conditions and won’t even need the human to intervene. Level 5 is much the same, but the car can drive in basically any conditions. 
 
			Editors' Recommendations		 
 
 
 
						Aftermarket autonomy: This magic box gives your car  self -parking abilities					 
 
 
 
						Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y					 
 
 
 
						Waymo and Volvo ink deal to build an all-new electric robo-taxi					 
 
 
 
						Most affordable electric  cars  for 2020					 
 
 
 
						Cadillac Super Cruise vs. Tesla Autopilot					 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 					The 15 best tech jobs boast top salaries, high satisfaction, lots of openings				   
 
 6 hours ago   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 					Innovative ‘guide dog’ device uses lidar to help Blind people navigate				   
 
 22 hours ago   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 					2020 Tesla Model S vs. 2020 Tesla Model 3: Which one comes out on top?				   
 
 5 days ago   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 					Tesla Model 3 vs. Tesla Model Y				   
 
 5 days ago   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 					Want to join the Android Army? Here are all the  cars  with Android Auto				   
 
 July  8, 2020   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 					2020 Toyota Camry vs. 2020 Honda Accord				   
 
 July  8, 2020   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 					Elon Musk’s Boring Company plans ‘Not-a-Boring’ boring contest				   
 
 July  9, 2020   
 
 
 
 
 
 					Parallel parking never looked as cool as it does in these record-breaking stunts				   
 
 July 10, 2020   
 
 
 
 
 
 					Aftermarket autonomy: This magic box gives your car  self -parking abilities				   
 
 July 11, 2020   
 
 
 
 
 
 					Tesla set to unveil new million-mile battery at in-person event in September				   
 
 July 11, 2020   
 
 
 
 
 
 					Bone up on the history of the Ford Bronco ahead of the new model’s reveal				   
 
 July 12, 2020   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 					The all-new Nissan Kidster is a cardboard car for children				   
 
 July 13, 2020   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 					Everything you need to know about the Volkswagen Microbus				   
 
 July 13, 2020   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 					15 awesome flying taxis and  cars  currently in development				   
 
 July 13, 2020   
 
 
 
 
 
 					The best car-sharing apps for 2020				   
 
 July 13, 2020   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upgrade your lifestyle Digital Trends helps readers keep tabs on the fast-paced world of tech with all the latest news, fun product reviews, insightful editorials, and one-of-a-kind sneak peeks. Digital Trends may earn a commission when you buy through links on our site. 
 Copyright ©2020 Designtechnica Corporation. All rights reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Add Us To Your Social Channels 
 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 Instragram 
 LinkedIn 
 Pinterest 
 YouTube 
 RSS Home 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 Newsletter Landing 
 
 
 
 Must Reads 
 
 Best Movies on Netflix 
 Best Shows on Netflix 
 Best Shows on Hulu 
 Best Movies on Hulu 
 Best Shows on Amazon Prime 
 Best Movies on Amazon Prime 
 Best iPhone Games 
 Best Android Games 
 Best Tech Jobs 
 
 
 Popular Downloads 
 
 Download Fortnite 
 Download Skype 
 Download Winrar 
 Download Netflix for Android 
 Download Spotify for Android 
 Download PC games 
 Downloads for Windows 
 Downloads for Mac 
 Downloads for Android 
 
 
 Who We Are 
 
 About Us 
 Diversity & Inclusion 
 Contact Us 
 Privacy Policy 
 Terms of Use 
 Do Not Sell My Info 
 Careers 
 DT Español 
 The Manual 
 The Angle 
 Podcasts 
 Giveaways 
 Sponsored Content 
 Advertise with Us 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 