What are Self-Driving Cars and How Do They Work? 
  Begin Google Tag Manager  
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
  PinnedNavBarController, generated at 15:28:46 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
  AdsController, generated at 15:28:46 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
  AdsController, generated at 15:28:46 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 SearchEnterpriseAI 
 
 
 
 
 Search the TechTarget Network 
 
 
 
 Sign-up now. Start my free, unlimited access. 
 
 Login 
 Register 
 
 
 
 
 Techtarget Network 
 News 
 Features 
 Tips 
 
 More Content 
 
 
 Answers 
 Buyer's Guides 
 Definitions 
 Essential Guides 
 Opinions 
 Photo Stories 
 Podcasts 
 Quizzes 
 Tutorials 
 
 Sponsored Communities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search Enterprise AI 
 
 
 
 
 
 Topic     
								Enterprise applications of AI 
     
 
 
 
 
  AI business strategies 
  AI infrastructure 
  AI technologies 
  AI platforms  
  AI careers 
  Machine learning platforms 
 All Topics 
 
 
 
 
 
 SubTopic          Robotics in business 
 
 
 
 
  AI case studies 
  Robotics in business 
 All Subtopics 
 
 
 
 
 
 Follow: 
 
 
 
  AdsController, generated at 15:28:46 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
  BreadcrumbsController, generated at 11:22:34 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 
 Home 
 Robotics in business 
 Robotics 
 self-driving car (autonomous car or driverless car)  
 
 
 
 
 
  ContentItemController, generated at 11:22:34 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 Definition self-driving car (autonomous car or driverless car)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
									Posted by:  Margaret Rouse 
 
 WhatIs.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contributor(s):  Ben Lutkevich  and  Bridget Botelho 
 
  AdsController, generated at 11:22:34 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
  SocialMediaShareBarController, generated at 15:28:46 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 
 Share this item with your network: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ContentItemController, generated at 11:22:34 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A self-driving car (sometimes called an  autonomous car  or  driverless car ) is a vehicle that uses a combination of sensors, cameras, radar and artificial intelligence ( AI ) to travel between destinations without a human operator. To qualify as fully autonomous, a vehicle must be able to navigate without human intervention to a predetermined destination over roads that have not been adapted for its use. 
 Content Continues Below 
 
 
 
 
 Download this free guide 
 
 
 Download: Free AI Buyer's Guide We designed this expert guide to help you better understand all of the considerations for building and maintaining the infrastructure and engine that support the initiatives. Plus, learn about the products and players, like Amazon, Google, IBM, and 16 more to help you make the best buying decision. Start Download 
 
 
 
 
 
 Corporate E-mail Address: 
 
 You forgot to provide an Email Address. 
 This email address doesn’t appear to be valid. 
 This email address is already registered. Please  login . 
 You have exceeded the maximum character limit. 
 Please provide a Corporate E-mail Address. 
 
 
 
 
 I agree to TechTarget’s  Terms of Use ,  Privacy Policy , and the transfer of my information to the United States for processing to provide me with relevant information as described in our Privacy Policy. 
 
 
 
 Please check the box if you want to proceed. 
 
 
 
 
 I agree to my information being processed by TechTarget and its  Partners  to contact me via phone, email, or other means regarding information relevant to my professional interests. I may unsubscribe at any time. 
 
 
 
 Please check the box if you want to proceed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 By submitting my Email address I confirm that I have read and accepted the Terms of Use and  Declaration of Consent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Companies developing and/or testing autonomous cars include Audi, BMW, Ford, Google, General Motors, Tesla, Volkswagen and Volvo. Google's test involved a fleet of self-driving cars -- including Toyota Prii and an Audi TT -- navigating over 140,000 miles of California streets and highways. 
 
 How self-driving cars work 
 AI technologies power self-driving car systems. Developers of self-driving cars use vast amounts of data from  image recognition  systems, along with  machine learning  and  neural networks , to build systems that can drive autonomously. 
 The neural networks identify patterns in the data, which is fed to the machine learning algorithms. That data includes images from cameras on self-driving cars from which the neural network learns to identify traffic lights, trees, curbs, pedestrians, street signs and other parts of any given driving environment. 
 For example, Google's self-driving car project, called Waymo, uses a mix of sensors,  Lidar  (light detection and ranging -- a technology similar to  radar ) and cameras and combines all of the data those systems generate to identify everything around the vehicle and predict what those objects might do next. This happens in fractions of a second. Maturity is important for these systems. The more the system drives, the more data it can incorporate into its  deep learning  algorithms, enabling it to make more nuanced driving choices. 
 The following outlines how Google Waymo vehicles work: 
 
 The driver (or passenger) sets a destination. The car's software calculates a route. 
 A rotating, roof-mounted Lidar sensor monitors a 60-meter range around the car and creates a dynamic three-dimensional ( 3D ) map of the car's current environment. 
 A sensor on the left rear wheel monitors sideways movement to detect the car's position relative to the 3D map. 
 Radar systems in the front and rear bumpers calculate distances to obstacles. 
 AI software in the car is connected to all the sensors and collects input from  Google Street View  and video cameras inside the car. 
 The AI simulates human perceptual and decision-making processes using deep learning and controls actions in driver control systems, such as steering and brakes. 
 The car's software consults  Google Maps  for advance notice of things like landmarks, traffic signs and lights. 
 An override function is available to enable a human to take control of the vehicle. 
 
 
 
 Cars with self-driving features 
 Google's Waymo project is an example of a self-driving car that is almost entirely autonomous. It still requires a human driver to be present but only to override the system when necessary. It is not self-driving in the purest sense, but it can drive itself in ideal conditions. It has a high level of autonomy. Many of the cars available to consumers today have a lower level of autonomy but still have some self-driving features. The self-driving features that are available in many production cars as of 2019 include the following: 
 
 Hands-free steering  centers the car without the driver's hands on the wheel. The driver is still required to pay attention. 
 Adaptive cruise control ( ACC ) down to a stop  automatically maintains a selectable distance between the driver's car and the car in front. 
 Lane-centering steering  intervenes when the driver crosses lane markings by automatically nudging the vehicle toward the opposite lane marking. 
 
 
 
 Levels of autonomy in self-driving cars 
 The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ( NHTSA ) lays out six levels of automation, beginning with Level 0, where humans do the driving, through  driver assistance  technologies up to fully autonomous cars. Here are the five levels that follow Level 0 automation: 
 
 Level 1 :  An advanced driver assistance system (ADAS) aid the human driver with steering, braking or accelerating, though not simultaneously. An ADAS includes rearview cameras and features like a vibrating seat warning to alert drivers when they drift out of the traveling lane. 
 Level 2 :  An ADAS that can steer and either brake or accelerate simultaneously while the driver remains fully aware behind the wheel and continues to act as the driver. 
 Level 3 :  An automated driving system (ADS) can perform all driving tasks under certain circumstances, such as parking the car. In these circumstances, the human driver must be ready to retake control and is still required to be the main driver of the vehicle. 
 Level 4 :  An ADS can perform all driving tasks and monitor the driving environment in certain circumstances. In those circumstances, the ADS is reliable enough that the human driver needn't pay attention. 
 Level 5 :  The vehicle's ADS acts as a virtual chauffeur and does all the driving in all circumstances. The human occupants are passengers and are never expected to drive the vehicle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Automation spans from zero automation to fully autonomous.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Uses 
 As of 2019, carmakers have reached Level 4. Manufacturers must clear a variety of technological milestones, and several important issues must be addressed before fully autonomous vehicles can be purchased and used on public roads in the United States. Even though cars with Level 4 autonomy aren't available for public consumption, they are in used in other ways. 
 For example, Google's Waymo partnered with Lyft to offer a fully autonomous commercial ride-sharing service called Waymo One. Riders can hail a self-driving car to bring them to their destination and provide feedback to Waymo. The cars still include a safety driver in case the ADS needs to be overridden. The service is only available in the Metro Phoenix area as of late 2019 but is looking to expand to cities in Florida and California. 
 Autonomous street-sweeping vehicles are also being produced in China's Hunan province, meeting the Level 4 requirements for independently navigating a familiar environment with limited novel situations. 
 Projections from manufacturers vary on when Level 4 and 5 vehicles will be widely available. Ford and Volvo both project a 2021 release of a Level 4 vehicle for public consumption. Tesla CEO Elon Musk, being a pioneer of both self-driving and electric cars, has claimed that his company will have Level 5 vehicles ready as early as 2020. A successful Level 5 car must be able to react to novel driving situations as well or better than a human can. 
 
 
 The pros and cons of self-driving cars 
 The top benefit touted by autonomous vehicle proponents is safety. A U.S. Department of Transportation ( DOT ) and NHTSA statistical projection of traffic fatalities for 2017 estimated that 37,150 people died in motor vehicle traffic accidents that year. NHTSA estimated that 94% of serious crashes are due to human error or poor choices, such as drunk or distracted driving. Autonomous cars remove those risk factors from the equation -- though self-driving cars are still vulnerable to other factors, such as mechanical issues, that cause crashes. 
 If autonomous cars can significantly reduce the number of crashes, the economic benefits could be enormous. Injuries impact economic activity, including $57.6 billion in lost workplace productivity and $594 billion due to loss of life and decreased quality of life due to injuries, according to NHTSA. 
 
 
 
 
 Driverless trucks may prevent collisions and improve the economy.
   
 
 
 
 
 In theory, if the roads were mostly occupied by autonomous cars, traffic would flow smoothly, and there would be less traffic congestion. In fully automated cars, the occupants could do productive activities while commuting to work. People who aren't able to drive due to physical limitations could find new independence through autonomous vehicles and would have the opportunity to work in fields that require driving. 
 Autonomous trucks have been tested in the U.S. and Europe to enable drivers to use autopilot over long distances, freeing the driver to rest or complete tasks and improving driver safety and fuel efficiency. This initiative, called  truck platooning , is powered by ACC, collision avoidance systems and  vehicle-to-vehicle communications  for cooperative ACC (CACC). 
 The downsides of self-driving technology could be that riding in a vehicle without a driver behind the steering wheel may be unnerving -- at least at first. But, as self-driving capabilities become commonplace, human drivers may become overly reliant on the autopilot technology and leave their safety in the hands of automation, even when they should act as backup drivers in case of software failures or mechanical issues. 
 In one example from March 2018, Tesla's Model X sport utility vehicle (SUV) was on autopilot when it crashed into a highway lane divider. The driver's hands were not on the wheel, despite visual warnings and an audible warning to put his hands back on the steering wheel, according to the company. Another crash occurred when a Tesla's AI mistook the side of a truck's shiny reflection for the sky. 
 
 
 Self-driving car safety and challenges 
 Autonomous cars must learn to identify countless objects in the vehicle's path, from branches and litter to animals and people. Other challenges on the road are tunnels that interfere with the Global Positioning System ( GPS ), construction projects that cause lane changes or complex decisions, like where to stop to allow emergency vehicles to pass. 
 The systems need to make instantaneous decisions on when to slow down, swerve or continue acceleration normally. This is a continuing challenge for developers, and there are reports of self-driving cars hesitating and swerving unnecessarily when objects are detected in or near the roadways. 
 This problem was evident in a fatal accident in March 2018, which involved an autonomous car operated by Uber. The company reported that the vehicle's software identified a pedestrian but deemed it a false positive and failed to swerve to avoid hitting her. This crash caused Toyota to temporarily cease its testing of self-driving cars on public roads, but its testing will continue elsewhere. The Toyota Research Institute is constructing a test facility on a 60-acre site in Michigan to further develop automated vehicle technology. 
 With crashes also comes the question of liability, and lawmakers have yet to define who is liable when an autonomous car is involved in an accident. There are also serious concerns that the software used to operate autonomous vehicles can be hacked, and automotive companies are working to address  cybersecurity  risks. 
 Carmakers are subject to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS), and NHTSA reported that more work must be done for vehicles to meet those standards. 
 In China, carmakers and regulators are adopting a different strategy to meet standards and make self-driving cars an everyday reality. The Chinese government is beginning to redesign urban landscapes, policy and infrastructure to make the environment more self-driving car-friendly. This includes writing rules about how humans move around and recruiting mobile network operators to take on a portion of the processing required to give self-driving vehicles the data they need to navigate. "National Test Roads" would be implemented. The autocratic nature of the Chinese government makes this possible, which bypasses the litigious democracy that tests are funneled through in America. 
 
 
 History of self-driving cars 
 The path toward self-driving cars began with incremental automation features for safety and convenience before the year 2000, with cruise control and antilock brakes. After the turn of the millennium, advanced safety features, including electronic stability control, blind-spot detection, and collision and lane shift warnings, became available in vehicles. Between 2010 and 2016, advanced driver assistance capabilities, such as rearview video cameras, automatic emergency brakes and lane-centering assistance, emerged, according to NHTSA. 
 
 Since 2016, self-driving cars have moved toward partial autonomy, with features that help drivers stay in their lane, along with ACC technology and the ability to self-park. 
 Fully automated vehicles are not publicly available yet and may not be for many years. In the U.S., NHTSA provides federal guidance for introducing ADSes onto public roads and, as autonomous car technologies advance, so will the department's guidance. 
 Self-driving cars are not yet legal on most roads. In June 2011, Nevada became the first jurisdiction in the world to allow driverless cars to be tested on public roadways; California, Florida, Ohio and Washington, D.C., have followed in the years since. 
 The history of driverless cars goes back much further than that. Leonardo da Vinci designed the first  prototype  around 1478.  Da Vinci's car  was designed as a self-propelled robot powered by springs, with programmable steering and the ability to run preset courses. 
 
 
 
		
		
			
			
				
					This was last updated in  October 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
			Continue Reading About self-driving car (autonomous car or driverless car)
		 
 
 Future of AI in transportation goes beyond self-driving cars 
 
 
 How driverless cars will interact with each other (and us) 
 
 
 Colorado believes autonomous vehicles technology can save lives 
 
 
 Simplifying the autonomous car 
 
 
 Waymo's fully self-driving cars are here 
 
 
 
  AdsController, generated at 11:22:34 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
  RelatedTermsController, generated at 12:54:03 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 
				Related Terms 
 
 
 chat channels 
 
 Chat channels are technologies enabling companies to engage with customers in live conversations.  
							See complete definition 
 
 
 
 intelligent process automation (IPA) 
 
 Intelligent process automation (IPA) is a combination of technologies used to manage and automate digital processes.  
							See complete definition 
 
 
 
 What is RPA? Everything you need to know 
 
 Robotic process automation technology is software that can be trained to mimic routine, labor-intensive tasks performed by humans.  
							See complete definition 
 
 
 
 
 
  DigDeeperController, generated at 15:28:46 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 Dig Deeper on Robotics in business 
 
 
 
 Amazon moves into autonomous vehicle market 
 
 
 
 
 
 Autonomous vehicles get in the fast lane for next decade 
 
 
 
 
 By:  Joe O’Halloran 
 
 
 
 
 Seven projects funded to explore CAV security 
 
 
 
 
 By:  Alex Scroxton 
 
 
 
 
 Brands must allay worries for AI in transportation to take hold 
 
 
 
 
 By:  Kassidy Kelley 
 
 
 
 
  DiscussionsController, generated at 15:28:46 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Margaret Rouse  asks: 
 What's your opinion on the move toward self-driving vehicles? 
 
 
 
 Join the Discussion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  VendorResourcesController, generated at 11:22:34 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 Sponsored News 
 
 
 The Future of Work: AI Assisting Humans to be More Productive 
 –Citrix 
 
 
 Is your IT ready to compete in the digital age? 
 –Intel 
 
 See More 
 
 Vendor Resources 
 
 
 CW Nordics - May-July 2019: Facing up to fintech 
 –ComputerWeekly.com 
 
 
 
 CW Middle East – January 2017 
 –ComputerWeekly.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  CommentingController, generated at 15:28:46 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
				Join the conversation 
 
 
 8  comments 
 
 
 
 
						Send me notifications when other members comment. 
 Add My Comment 
 
 
 
 
 Register 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
						          	I agree to TechTarget’s  Terms of Use ,  Privacy Policy , and the transfer of my information to the United States for processing to provide me with relevant information as described in our Privacy Policy. 
 
 
 
 
 Please check the box if you want to proceed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
						          	I agree to my information being processed by TechTarget and its  Partners  to contact me via phone, email, or other means regarding information relevant to my professional interests. I may unsubscribe at any time. 
 
 
 
 
 Please check the box if you want to proceed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Login 
 
 
 Forgot your password? 
 
 
 
 
 
 Forgot your password? 
 
 No problem! Submit your e-mail address below. We'll send you an email containing your password. 
 
 
 
 
 Submit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Your password has been sent to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Please create a username to comment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oldest  
 Newest  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [-] 
 
 
 
 Margaret Rouse 
  - 23 Sep 2011 4:29 AM 
 
 What's your opinion on the move toward self-driving vehicles? 
 
 
 
 Add My Comment 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [-] 
 
 
 
 AnonymousUser 
  - 15 Feb 2015 5:56 AM 
 
 How to work driverless car work with computer software 
 
 
 
 Add My Comment 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [-] 
 
 
 
 AnonymousUser 
  - 27 Apr 2015 8:09 AM 
 
 how was it developed? 
 
 
 
 Add My Comment 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [-] 
 
 
 
 ololfffffff 
  - 6 Feb 2017 2:18 PM 
 
 Amaizing techoligy 
 
 
 
 Add My Comment 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [-] 
 
 
 
 pavisweetie 
  - 15 Aug 2017 2:19 AM 
 
 What are the disadvantages in a driverless car? 
 
 
 
 Add My Comment 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [-] 
 
 
 
 Maxine Giza 
  - 17 May 2018 9:45 AM 
 
 Hi pavisweetie, Thank you for your question. We just added a section outlining safety and challenges. 
 
 
 
 Add My Comment 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [-] 
 
 
 
 Chris0362 
  - 15 Nov 2018 10:55 AM 
 
 What are other technology being used to create a self-driving vehicle? 
 
 
 
 Add My Comment 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [-] 
 
 
 
 justinevans1 
  - 15 Feb 2019 7:43 AM 
 
 The current decade is not only significant for automobile manufacturer 
for commercializing autonomous vehicles. It also witnesses the landmark 
achievement of autonomy in the ride-sharing industry. Here I read an article about Machine Intelligence Unleashes Autonomous Transportation: https://cabstartup.com/machine-intelligence-unleashes-autonomous-transportation/  Artificial 
intelligence laid the foundation stone to achieve these feats. Machine 
intelligence in transportation is a crucial component of future urban 
mobility. 
 
 
 
 Add My Comment 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  GoogleAdSenseController, generated at 15:27:59 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 -ADS BY GOOGLE 
 
  Search Sites Responsive AFC  
 
 
 
  FileExtensionsController, generated at 12:44:41 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 File Extensions and File Formats 
 
 A 
 B 
 C 
 D 
 E 
 F 
 G 
 H 
 I 
 J 
 K 
 L 
 M 
 N 
 O 
 P 
 Q 
 R 
 S 
 
 
 T 
 U 
 V 
 W 
 X 
 Y 
 Z 
 # 
 
 
 Powered by: 
 
 
 
  NetworkCoverageController, generated at 15:28:00 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
 Latest TechTarget  resources 
 
 
 
							Business Analytics 
 
 
 
 
 
							CIO 
 
 
 
 
 
							Data Management 
 
 
 
 
 
							ERP 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search Business Analytics 
 
 
 
 
 Python exploratory data analysis and why it's important 
 Exploratory data analysis is a key step to building the best models to gain insight from your data. Read on to see how Python can... 
 
 
 
 AI, UX and embedded features all pillars of Power BI platform 
 As Microsoft adds new features to Power BI, augmented intelligence and embedded analytics will continue to be a focus, Microsoft ... 
 
 
 
 Alteryx ADAPT a program for laid-off workers, recent grads 
 Alteryx is offering a free training program in data science to help people whose jobs have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search CIO 
 
 
 
 
 Enterprise architecture heats up to meet changing needs 
 Forrester Research analyst sees barriers to enterprise architects moving forward in skills, tools' ROI and tech-savvy execs who ... 
 
 
 
 Why structural change in an organization is key 
 In her book 'Dynamic Reteaming,' Heidi Helfand dives into the importance of reteaming and provides strategies organizations can ... 
 
 
 
 The constant threat of social engineering attacks 
 Social engineering attacks aren't anything new, but they continue to evolve and be a big problem for many organizations. Here are... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search Data Management 
 
 
 
 
 Key to data management in oil and gas is stability 
 Ensuring quality data management and analytics comes from following best practices, proper commitment from your organization and ... 
 
 
 
 Rockset updates real-time indexing cloud database 
 Technology based on the open source RocksDB project is helping cloud database vendor Rockset improve scalability for real-time ... 
 
 
 
 Data accuracy vendor boosts MDM data quality 
 Naveego's latest platform update introduces a new user interface that looks to make it easier for users to integrate different ... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search ERP 
 
 
 
 
 10 cloud ERP implementation challenges during COVID-19 
 A new cloud ERP system can help your company create digital transformation and find new opportunities. But first, you must ... 
 
 
 
 SAP, Siemens partner to advance digital manufacturing 
 A new deal between SAP and Siemens combines SAP ERP systems with Siemens Teamcenter PLM platform, enabling companies to develop ... 
 
 
 
 Remote ERP implementation: 10 project management essentials 
 Implementing ERP remotely can be challenging because for many IT teams it's new territory. Here are ways to make it easier. 
 
 
 
 
 
  FooterLinksController, generated at 15:28:00 Thu Jul 30, 2020, by cds4  
 
 
  Plug in TechTarget Logo inside the anchor tag here.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About Us 
 Meet The Editors 
 Contact Us 
 Privacy Policy 
 Advertisers 
 Business Partners 
 Media Kit 
 Corporate Site 
 
 
 Contributors 
 Reprints 
 Answers 
 Definitions 
 E-Products 
 Events 
 Features 
 
 
 Guides 
 Opinions 
 Photo Stories 
 Quizzes 
 Tips 
 Tutorials 
 Videos 
 
 
 
 
 All Rights Reserved,  
 Copyright 2018 - 2020 , TechTarget 
 
 
 Do Not Sell My Personal Info 
 
 
 
  Begin Chartbeat  
  End Chartbeat  
  Begin STRUCTUREDDATA  
  End STRUCTUREDDATA  
 
 
 
 
 
 Close 
 
 
Component Load Times
====================
DefaultPageController=120 ms
PinnedNavBarController=39 ms
AdsController=0 ms
SocialMediaShareBarController=0 ms
DigDeeperController=149 ms
DiscussionsController=11 ms
CommentingController=20 ms

Total time=339 ms
Request Serving Server: cds4
 
 