 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.tutorialspoint.com/artificial_intelligence/artificial_intelligence_overview.htm  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-30  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start artificial   intelligence HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  html 
 Artificial Intelligence - Overview - Tutorialspoint 
 
 
 × 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Home 
 
 
   Jobs 
 
 
   Tools 
 
 
   Coding Ground  
 
 
   Current Affairs 
 
 
   UPSC Notes 
 
 
   Online Tutors 
 
 
   Whiteboard 
 
 
   Net Meeting 
 
 
   Tutorix 
 
 
   Login 
 
 
   Premium 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Categories  
 
 
 
  Academic Tutorials 
  Big Data & Analytics  
  Computer Programming  
  Computer Science  
  Databases  
  DevOps  
  Digital Marketing  
  Engineering Tutorials  
  Exams Syllabus  
  Famous Monuments  
  GATE Exams Tutorials 
  Latest Technologies  
  Machine Learning  
  Mainframe Development  
  Management Tutorials  
  Mathematics Tutorials 
  Microsoft Technologies  
  Misc tutorials  
  Mobile Development  
  Java Technologies  
  Python Technologies  
  SAP Tutorials  
 Programming Scripts  
  Selected Reading  
  Software Quality  
  Soft Skills  
  Telecom Tutorials  
  UPSC IAS Exams  
  Web Development  
  Sports Tutorials  
  XML Technologies  
  Multi-Language 
  Interview Questions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Library 
 
 
   Videos 
 
 
   Q/A 
 
 
   eBooks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Login 
   Library 
   Videos 
   eBooks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Tutorial ToC Starts Here  
 
 
 
 
 
 Artificial   Intelligence  Tutorial 
 AI - Home 
 AI - Overview 
 AI - Intelligent Systems 
 AI - Research Areas 
 AI - Agents and Environments 
 AI - Popular Search Algorithms 
 AI - Fuzzy Logic Systems 
 AI - Natural Language Processing 
 AI - Expert Systems 
 AI - Robotics 
 AI - Neural Networks 
 AI - Issues 
 AI - Terminology 
 
 
 Artificial   Intelligence  Resources 
 Artificial   Intelligence  - Quick Guide 
 AI - Useful Resources 
 Artificial   Intelligence  - Discussion 
 
 
 Selected Reading 
 UPSC IAS Exams Notes 
 Developer's Best Practices 
 Questions and Answers 
 Effective Resume Writing 
 HR Interview Questions 
 Computer Glossary 
 Who is Who 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Tutorial ToC Ends Here  
  Tutorial Content Starts Here  
 
 Artificial   Intelligence  - Overview 
 
 
 Advertisements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Previous Page 
 
 
 Next Page    
 
 
 
 Since the invention of computers or machines, their capability to perform various tasks went on growing exponentially. Humans have developed the power of computer systems in terms of their diverse working domains, their increasing speed, and reducing size with respect to time. 
 A branch of Computer Science named  Artificial   Intelligence  pursues creating the computers or machines as intelligent as human beings. 
 What is  Artificial   Intelligence ? 
 According to the father of  Artificial   Intelligence , John McCarthy, it is  “The science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent computer programs”. 
 Artificial   Intelligence  is a way of  making a computer, a computer-controlled robot, or a software think intelligently , in the similar manner the intelligent humans think. 
 AI is accomplished by studying how human brain thinks, and how humans learn, decide, and work while trying to solve a problem, and then using the outcomes of this study as a basis of developing intelligent software and systems. 
 Philosophy of AI 
 While exploiting the power of the computer systems, the curiosity of human, lead him to wonder,  “Can a machine think and behave like humans do?” 
 Thus, the development of AI started with the intention of creating similar  intelligence  in machines that we find and regard high in humans. 
 Goals of AI 
 
 To Create Expert Systems  − The systems which exhibit intelligent behavior, learn, demonstrate, explain, and advice its users. 
 To Implement Human  Intelligence  in Machines  − Creating systems that understand, think, learn, and behave like humans. 
 
 What Contributes to AI? 
 Artificial   intelligence  is a science and technology based on disciplines such as Computer Science, Biology, Psychology, Linguistics, Mathematics, and Engineering. A major thrust of AI is in the development of computer functions associated with human  intelligence , such as reasoning, learning, and problem solving. 
 Out of the following areas, one or multiple areas can contribute to build an intelligent system. 
 
 Programming Without and With AI 
 The programming without and with AI is different in following ways − 
 
 
 Programming Without AI 
 Programming With AI 
 
 
 A computer program without AI can answer the  specific  questions it is meant to solve. 
 A computer program with AI can answer the  generic  questions it is meant to solve. 
 
 
 Modification in the program leads to change in its structure. 
 AI programs can absorb new modifications by putting highly independent pieces of information together. Hence you can modify even a minute piece of information of program without affecting its structure. 
 
 
 Modification is not quick and easy. It may lead to affecting the program adversely. 
 Quick and Easy program modification. 
 
 
 What is AI Technique? 
 In the real world, the knowledge has some unwelcomed properties − 
 
 Its volume is huge, next to unimaginable. 
 It is not well-organized or well-formatted. 
 It keeps changing constantly. 
 
 AI Technique is a manner to organize and use the knowledge efficiently in such a way that − 
 
 It should be perceivable by the people who provide it. 
 It should be easily modifiable to correct errors. 
 It should be useful in many situations though it is incomplete or inaccurate. 
 
 AI techniques elevate the speed of execution of the complex program it is equipped with. 
 Applications of AI 
 AI has been dominant in various fields such as − 
 
 Gaming  − AI plays crucial role in strategic games such as chess, poker, tic-tac-toe, etc., where machine can think of large number of possible positions based on heuristic knowledge. 
 Natural Language Processing  − It is possible to interact with the computer that understands natural language spoken by humans. 
 Expert Systems  − There are some applications which integrate machine, software, and special information to impart reasoning and advising. They provide explanation and advice to the users. 
 Vision Systems  − These systems understand, interpret, and comprehend visual input on the computer. For example, 
 
 A spying aeroplane takes photographs, which are used to figure out spatial information or map of the areas. 
 Doctors use clinical expert system to diagnose the patient. 
 Police use computer software that can recognize the face of criminal with the stored portrait made by forensic artist. 
 
 
 Speech Recognition  − Some intelligent systems are capable of hearing and comprehending the language in terms of sentences and their meanings while a human talks to it. It can handle different accents, slang words, noise in the background, change in human’s noise due to cold, etc. 
 Handwriting Recognition  − The handwriting recognition software reads the text written on paper by a pen or on screen by a stylus. It can recognize the shapes of the letters and convert it into editable text. 
 Intelligent Robots  − Robots are able to perform the tasks given by a human. They have sensors to detect physical data from the real world such as light, heat, temperature, movement, sound, bump, and pressure. They have efficient processors, multiple sensors and huge memory, to exhibit  intelligence . In addition, they are capable of learning from their mistakes and they can adapt to the new environment. 
 
 History of AI 
 Here is the history of AI during 20th century − 
 
 
 Year 
 Milestone / Innovation 
 
 
 1923 
 Karel Čapek play named “Rossum's Universal Robots” (RUR) opens in London, first use of the word "robot" in English. 
 
 
 1943 
 Foundations for neural networks laid. 
 
 
 1945 
 Isaac Asimov, a Columbia University alumni, coined the term  Robotics . 
 
 
 1950 
 Alan Turing introduced Turing Test for evaluation of  intelligence  and published  Computing Machinery and  Intelligence .  Claude Shannon published  Detailed Analysis of Chess Playing  as a search. 
 
 
 1956 
 John McCarthy coined the term  Artificial   Intelligence . Demonstration of the first running AI program at Carnegie Mellon University. 
 
 
 1958 
 John McCarthy invents LISP programming language for AI. 
 
 
 1964 
 Danny Bobrow's dissertation at MIT showed that computers can understand natural language well enough to solve algebra word problems correctly. 
 
 
 1965 
 Joseph Weizenbaum at MIT built  ELIZA , an interactive problem that carries on a dialogue in English. 
 
 
 1969 
 Scientists at Stanford Research Institute Developed  Shakey , a robot, equipped with locomotion, perception, and problem solving. 
 
 
 1973 
 The Assembly Robotics group at Edinburgh University built  Freddy , the Famous Scottish Robot, capable of using vision to locate and assemble models. 
 
 
 1979 
 The first computer-controlled autonomous vehicle, Stanford Cart, was built. 
 
 
 1985 
 Harold Cohen created and demonstrated the drawing program,  Aaron . 
 
 
 1990 
 Major advances in all areas of AI − 
 
 Significant demonstrations in machine learning 
 Case-based reasoning 
 Multi-agent planning 
 Scheduling 
 Data mining, Web Crawler 
 natural language understanding and translation 
 Vision, Virtual Reality 
 Games 
 
 
 
 
 1997 
 The Deep Blue Chess Program beats the then world chess champion, Garry Kasparov. 
 
 
 2000 
 Interactive robot pets become commercially available. MIT displays  Kismet , a robot with a face that expresses emotions. The robot  Nomad  explores remote regions of Antarctica and locates meteorites. 
 
 
 
 
  Previous Page 
  Print Page 
 
 
 Next Page    
 
 
 
 
 Advertisements 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Tutorial Content Ends Here  
  Right Column Starts Here  
 
 
 
 
 
  Print 
  Add Notes 
  Bookmark this page  
  Report Error 
  Suggestions 
 
 
 
 
  Save 
  Close 
 
 
 
   Dashboard 
   Logout 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Right Column Ends Here  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  About us 
  Terms of use 
    Privacy Policy 
  FAQ's 
  Teach with Us 
  Contact 
 
 © Copyright 2020. All Rights Reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 