 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.britannica.com/technology/artificial-intelligence  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-30  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start artificial   intelligence HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  html 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 artificial intelligence | Definition, Examples, and Applications | Britannica 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            Search Britannica
                         
 
 
 
 
 
 Encyclopædia  Britannica
                 
 
 
 
 
 
                                    Login
                                 
 
 
   Subscribe Now
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    Categories 
                     
 
 
 
 
 
 Entertainment & Pop Culture 
 Geography & Travel 
 Health & Medicine 
 Lifestyles & Social Issues 
 Literature 
 Philosophy & Religion 
 Politics, Law & Government 
 Science 
 Sports & Recreation 
 Technology 
 Visual Arts 
 World History 
 
 
 
 
                    Features 
                     
 
 
 
 
 
 Demystified 
 #WTFact 
 Lists 
 100 Women 
 Saving Earth 
 SpaceNext 50 
 Companions 
 Spotlight 
 Image Galleries 
 Student Center 
 
 
 
 
                    Videos
                     
 
 
 
 
 
 Entertainment & Pop Culture 
 Geography & Travel 
 Health & Medicine 
 Lifestyles & Social Issues 
 Literature 
 Philosophy & Religion 
 Politics, Law & Government 
 Science 
 Sports & Recreation 
 Technology 
 Visual Arts 
 World History 
 
 
 Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. 
 Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. 
 This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. 
 #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. 
 Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                        Biographies 
 
 
 
                        On This Day 
 
 
 
                        Quizzes 
 
 
 
 COVID-19 
 
 
 
 
 COVID-19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 Artificial   intelligence 
 
 
 
 
 
 
			Article
		 
 
 
 
 
			Media
		 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	Info
 
 
 
	
	Print
 
 
 
 Print 
	   Please select which sections you would like to print:
	    
 
 
 Table Of Contents 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
	Cite
 
 
 
 
	
	Feedback
 
 
 
 
 Feedback 
 
				Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article
			     (requires login).
			  
 
 Select feedback type: 
 
 Select a type (Required) 
 Factual Correction 
 Spelling/Grammar Correction 
 Link Correction 
 Additional Information 
 Other 
 
 
 
 
 Submit Feedback 
 
 
 
 Thank you for your feedback 
 Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. 
 
                 Join  Britannica's Publishing Partner Program  and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work!
              
 
 
 
 
 
	
	Share
 
 
 
 
 SHARE 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 HTML Introduction What is  intelligence ? Learning Reasoning Problem solving Perception Language Methods and goals in AI Symbolic vs. connectionist approaches Strong AI, applied AI, and cognitive simulation Alan Turing and the beginning of AI Theoretical work Chess The Turing test Early milestones in AI The first AI programs Evolutionary computing Logical reasoning and problem solving English dialogue AI programming languages Microworld programs Expert systems Knowledge and inference DENDRAL MYCIN The CYC project Connectionism Creating an  artificial  neural network Perceptrons Conjugating verbs Other neural networks Nouvelle AI New foundations The situated approach Is strong AI possible? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 Technology 
 Computers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Artificial   intelligence 
 
 WRITTEN BY 
 
 B.J. Copeland 
 Professor of Philosophy and Director of the Turing Archive for the History of Computing, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand. Author of  Artificial   Intelligence   and others. 
 
 
 See Article History 
 
 
 Alternative Title: 
				AI 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [BEFORE-ARTICLE] HTML Artificial   intelligence  (AI) ,  the ability of a digital  computer  or computer-controlled  robot  to perform tasks commonly associated with intelligent beings. The term is frequently applied to the project of developing systems endowed with the  intellectual  processes characteristic of humans, such as the ability to reason, discover meaning, generalize, or learn from past experience. Since the development of the  digital computer  in the 1940s, it has been demonstrated that computers can be programmed to carry out very complex tasks—as, for example, discovering proofs for mathematical theorems or playing  chess —with great proficiency. Still, despite continuing advances in computer processing speed and memory capacity, there are as yet no programs that can match human flexibility over wider domains or in tasks requiring much everyday knowledge. On the other hand, some programs have attained the performance levels of human experts and professionals in performing certain specific tasks, so that  artificial   intelligence  in this limited sense is found in applications as  diverse  as medical  diagnosis , computer  search engines , and voice or handwriting recognition. [P1] [AM1] 
 HTML Top Questions What is  artificial   intelligence ? [BP1] Artificial   intelligence  (AI) is the ability of a  computer  or a  robot  controlled by a computer to do tasks that are usually done by humans because they require human  intelligence  and discernment. Although there are no AIs that can perform the wide variety of tasks an ordinary human can do, some AIs can match humans in specific tasks. [P1] [AM1] [MOD1] Are  artificial   intelligence  and machine learning the same? [BP1] No,  artificial   intelligence  and machine learning are not the same, but they are closely related. Machine learning is the method to train a  computer  to learn from its inputs but without explicit programming for every circumstance. Machine learning helps a computer to achieve  artificial   intelligence . [P1] [AM1] [MOD1] 
 [H2] What is  intelligence ? 
 All but the simplest  human behaviour  is ascribed to  intelligence , while even the most complicated  insect  behaviour is never taken as an indication of  intelligence . What is the difference? Consider the behaviour of the digger  wasp ,  Sphex ichneumoneus . When the female wasp returns to her burrow with food, she first deposits it on the  threshold , checks for intruders inside her burrow, and only then, if the coast is clear, carries her food inside. The real nature of the wasp’s  instinctual behaviour  is revealed if the food is moved a few inches away from the entrance to her burrow while she is inside: on emerging, she will repeat the whole procedure as often as the food is displaced.  Intelligence —conspicuously absent in the case of  Sphex —must include the ability to adapt to new circumstances. [P2] [AM2] [MOD2] 
 Psychologists  generally do not characterize  human  intelligence  by just one trait but by the combination of many diverse abilities. Research in AI has focused chiefly on the following components of  intelligence : learning, reasoning,  problem solving ,  perception , and using language. [P3] [AM3] [MOD3] 
 Learning 
 There are a number of different forms of learning as applied to  artificial   intelligence . The simplest is learning by trial and error. For example, a simple  computer  program for solving mate-in-one  chess  problems might try moves at random until mate is found. The program might then store the solution with the position so that the next time the computer encountered the same position it would recall the solution. This simple memorizing of individual items and procedures—known as rote learning—is relatively easy to  implement  on a computer. More challenging is the problem of  implementing  what is called  generalization . Generalization involves applying past experience to  analogous  new situations. For example, a program that learns the past tense of regular English verbs by rote will not be able to produce the past tense of a word such as  jump  unless it previously had been presented with  jumped , whereas a program that is able to generalize can learn the “add  ed ” rule and so form the past tense of  jump  based on experience with similar verbs. [P4] [AM4] 
Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. 
 Subscribe today 
 
 [END-OF-CONTENT] [AFTER-ARTICLE] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [AD1] 
 
 
 Artificial   intelligence 
 
 HTML key people Marvin Minsky   Edward Albert Feigenbaum   Allen Newell   John McCarthy   Alan Turing   Ray Kurzweil   Rodney Brooks   Judea Pearl   Raj Reddy   Donald Michie   related topics Computer   Science fiction   Human  intelligence   Robot   Computational aesthetics   Neural network   Artificial   intelligence  programming language   Expert system   Genetic algorithm   Turing test 
 
 
 
 HTML did you know? American companies possessed about two-thirds of investments in  artificial   intelligence  as of 2016.   Both Siri and Google Translate utilize  artificial   intelligence  programs modeled after the learning process of human neural networks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                        Load Next Page
                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Artificial   intelligence 
 Additional Information 
 
 
 
 
 
 More About 
 
 
 
 
 Additional Reading 
 
 
 
 
 External Websites 
 
 
 
 
 Harvard University - Science in the News - The History of  Artificial   Intelligence 
 Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy -  Artificial   Intelligence 
 
 
 Britannica Websites 
 Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. 
 
 artificial   intelligence  - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) 
 artificial   intelligence  (AI) - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) 
 
 
 
 Article History 
 
 
 
 
 Article Contributors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
				Load Next Article
				 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Inspire your inbox – 
      Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers.
    
 
 
 
 
 
 Enter your email 
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
            By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. 
            Click here to view our  Privacy Notice . Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email.
         
 
 
 Thank you for subscribing! 
 Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Stay Connected 
 Facebook 
 Twitter 
 YouTube 
 Instagram 
 Pinterest 
 
 Newsletters 
 
 
 
 
 
 About Us & Legal Info 
 Partner Program 
 Contact Us 
 Privacy Notice 
 Terms of Use 
 
 ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 close 
 
 
   Check out Britannica's new site for parents!
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 