 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/artificial-intelligence-ai.asp  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-30  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start artificial   intelligence HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  html 
 
 Artificial Intelligence (AI) Definition 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Education
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General
 
 
 
 
Dictionary
 
 
 
 
Economics
 
 
 
 
Corporate Finance
 
 
 
 
Roth IRA
 
 
 
 
Stocks
 
 
 
 
Mutual Funds
 
 
 
 
ETFs
 
 
 
 
401(k)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investing/Trading
 
 
 
 
Investing Essentials
 
 
 
 
Fundamental Analysis
 
 
 
 
Portfolio Management
 
 
 
 
Trading Essentials
 
 
 
 
Technical Analysis
 
 
 
 
Risk Management
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Markets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
News
 
 
 
 
Company News
 
 
 
 
Markets News
 
 
 
 
Trading News
 
 
 
 
Political News
 
 
 
 
Trends
 
 
 
 
 
 
Popular Stocks
 
 
 
 
Apple (AAPL)
 
 
 
 
Tesla (TSLA)
 
 
 
 
Amazon (AMZN)
 
 
 
 
AMD (AMD)
 
 
 
 
Facebook (FB)
 
 
 
 
Netflix (NFLX)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simulator
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simulator
 
 
 
 
Create an Account
 
 
 
 
Join a Game
 
 
 
 
 
 
My Simulator
 
 
 
 
My Game
 
 
 
 
Create a Game
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Money
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Finance
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management
 
 
 
 
Budgeting/Saving
 
 
 
 
Banking
 
 
 
 
Credit Cards
 
 
 
 
Home Ownership
 
 
 
 
Retirement Planning
 
 
 
 
Taxes
 
 
 
 
Insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reviews & Ratings
 
 
 
 
Best Online Brokers
 
 
 
 
Best Savings Accounts
 
 
 
 
Best Home Warranties
 
 
 
 
Best Credit Cards
 
 
 
 
Best Personal Loans
 
 
 
 
Best Student Loans
 
 
 
 
Best Life Insurance
 
 
 
 
Best Auto Insurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Advisors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Practice
 
 
 
 
Practice Management
 
 
 
 
Continuing Education
 
 
 
 
Financial Advisor Careers
 
 
 
 
Investopedia 100
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wealth Management
 
 
 
 
Portfolio Construction
 
 
 
 
Financial Planning
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Academy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Popular Courses
 
 
 
 
Investing for Beginners
 
 
 
 
Become a Day Trader
 
 
 
 
Trading for Beginners
 
 
 
 
Technical Analysis
 
 
 
 
 
 
Courses by Topic
 
 
 
 
All Courses
 
 
 
 
Trading Courses
 
 
 
 
Investing Courses
 
 
 
 
Financial Professional Courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Submit 
 
 
 
 
  Google Tag Manager ()  
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
 
 
 
 Alternative Investments 
 
 
   Marijuana Investing 
   
 
   Hedge Funds Investing 
   
 
   Private Equity & Venture Cap 
   
 
   Real Estate Investing 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Investing
   
 
 
  Alternative Investments
 
 
 Artificial   Intelligence  (AI) 
 
By
 Jake Frankenfield 
 
 
 Reviewed By
 
 Gordon Scott   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Updated Mar 13, 2020 
 
 
 
      What Is  Artificial   Intelligence  (AI)?    
 
 Artificial   intelligence  (AI) refers to the simulation of human  intelligence  in machines that are programmed to think like humans and mimic their actions. The term may also be applied to any machine that exhibits traits associated with a human mind such as learning and problem-solving.
 
 
 
The ideal characteristic of  artificial   intelligence  is its ability to rationalize and take actions that have the best chance of achieving a specific goal.
 
 
      Understanding  Artificial   Intelligence     
 
When most people hear the term  artificial   intelligence , the first thing they usually think of is robots. That's because big-budget films and novels weave stories about human-like machines that wreak havoc on Earth. But nothing could be further from the truth.
 
 
 
 Artificial   intelligence  is based on the principle that human  intelligence  can be defined in a way that a machine can easily mimic it and execute tasks, from the most simple to those that are even more complex. The goals of  artificial   intelligence  include learning, reasoning, and perception.
 
 
 
As technology advances, previous benchmarks that defined  artificial   intelligence  become outdated. For example, machines that calculate basic functions or recognize text through optimal character recognition are no longer considered to embody  artificial   intelligence , since this function is now taken for granted as an inherent computer function.
 
 
 
AI is continuously evolving to benefit many different industries. Machines are wired using a cross-disciplinary approach based in mathematics, computer science, linguistics, psychology, and more.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Algorithms often play a very important part in the structure of  artificial   intelligence , where simple algorithms are used in simple applications, while more complex ones help frame strong  artificial   intelligence . 
 
 
      Applications of  Artificial   Intelligence     
 
The applications for  artificial   intelligence  are endless. The technology can be applied to many different sectors and industries. AI is being tested and used in the healthcare industry for dosing drugs and different treatment in patients, and for surgical procedures in the operating room.
 
 
 
Other examples of machines with  artificial   intelligence  include computers that play chess and  self-driving cars . Each of these machines must weigh the consequences of any action they take, as each action will impact the end result. In chess, the end result is winning the game. For self-driving cars, the computer system must account for all external data and compute it to act in a way that prevents a collision.
 
 
 
 Artificial   intelligence  also has applications in the financial industry, where it is used to detect and flag activity in banking and finance such as unusual debit card usage and large account deposits—all of which help a bank's fraud department. Applications for AI are also being used to help streamline and make trading easier. This is done by making supply, demand, and pricing of securities easier to estimate.
 
 
 
 
 
Key Takeaways 
 
 Artificial   intelligence  refers to the simulation of human  intelligence  in machines. The goals of  artificial   intelligence  include learning, reasoning, and perception. AI is being used across different industries including finance and healthcare. Weak AI tends to be simple and single-task oriented, while strong AI carries on tasks that are more complex and human-like. 
 
 
      Categorization of  Artificial   Intelligence     
 
 Artificial   intelligence  can be divided into two different categories: weak and strong.  Weak  artificial   intelligence  embodies a system designed to carry out one particular job. Weak AI systems include video games such as the chess example from above and personal assistants such as Amazon's Alexa and Apple's Siri. You ask the assistant a question, it answers it for you.
 
 
 
 Strong  artificial   intelligence  systems are systems that carry on the tasks considered to be human-like. These tend to be more complex and complicated systems. They are programmed to handle situations in which they may be required to problem solve without having a person intervene. These kinds of systems can be found in applications like self-driving cars or in hospital operating rooms.
 
 
      Special Considerations    
 
Since its beginning,  artificial   intelligence  has come under scrutiny from scientists and the public alike. One common theme is the idea that machines will become so highly developed that humans will not be able to keep up and they will take off on their own, redesigning themselves at an exponential rate.
 
 
 
Another is that machines can hack into people's privacy and even be weaponized. Other arguments debate the ethics of  artificial   intelligence  and whether intelligent systems such as  robots  should be treated with the same rights as humans.
 
 
 
Self-driving cars have been fairly controversial as their machines tend to be designed for the lowest possible risk and the least casualties. If presented with a scenario of colliding with one person or another at the same time, these cars would calculate the option that would cause the least amount of damage.
 
 
 
Another contentious issue many people have with  artificial   intelligence  is how it may affect human employment. With many industries looking to automate certain jobs through the use of intelligent machinery, there is a concern that people would be pushed out of the workforce. Self-driving cars may remove the need for taxis and car-share programs, while manufacturers may easily replace human labor with machines, making people's skills more obsolete.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Take the Next Step to Invest 
 
 
Advertiser Disclosure
 
 
 
× 
 
The offers that appear in this table are from partnerships from which Investopedia receives compensation. 
 
 
 
 
 
Service 
 
Name 
 
Description 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Terms 
 
 
 Weak AI 
 
Weak AI is a machine  intelligence  that is limited to a particular area. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 Strong AI 
 
Strong AI is a type of machine  intelligence  that is equivalent to human  intelligence . 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 What Is Knowledge Engineering? 
 
Knowledge engineering is a field of  artificial   intelligence  (AI) that enables a system or machine to mimic the thought process of a human expert. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 AI Winter Definition 
 
AI ( Artificial   Intelligence ) winter is a time period in which funding for projects aimed at developing human-like  intelligence  in machines is minimal. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 Introduction to Natural Language Processing (NLP) 
 
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a type of  artificial   intelligence  that allows computers to break down and process human language. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 Artificial  Neural Network (ANN) 
 
An  artificial  neural network (ANN) is the foundation of  artificial   intelligence  (AI), solving problems that would be nearly impossible by humans. 
 more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Partner Links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Related Articles 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Continuing Education 
 
How AI is Shaping the Advisory Landscape 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Algorithmic/Automated Trading Basic Education 
 
Using Genetic Algorithms to Forecast Financial Markets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
ETF Trading Strategy & Education 
 
Top ETFs Capitalizing on  Artificial   Intelligence 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Career Advice 
 
7 Jobs That (Probably) Won’t Be Automated 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Automated Investing 
 
The Best Technical Analysis Trading Software 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Company Profiles 
 
Top 5 Companies Owned by Cisco 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About Us 
 
 
 
 
 Terms of Use 
 
 
 
 
 Dictionary 
 
 
 
 
 Editorial Policy 
 
 
 
 
 Advertise 
 
 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 
 
 Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 
 Careers 
 
 
 
 
 California Privacy Notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 # 
 
 
 A 
 
 
 B 
 
 
 C 
 
 
 D 
 
 
 E 
 
 
 F 
 
 
 G 
 
 
 H 
 
 
 I 
 
 
 J 
 
 
 K 
 
 
 L 
 
 
 M 
 
 
 N 
 
 
 O 
 
 
 P 
 
 
 Q 
 
 
 R 
 
 
 S 
 
 
 T 
 
 
 U 
 
 
 V 
 
 
 W 
 
 
 X 
 
 
 Y 
 
 
 Z 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investopedia is part of the  Dotdash  publishing family.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 