 Title:Start  You have reached the cached page for  https://www.pcmag.com/news/what-is-artificial-intelligence-ai  Title:End   Content:Start  Below is a snapshot of the Web page as it appeared on  2020-07-29  (the last time our crawler visited it). This is the version of the page that was used for ranking your search results. The page may have changed since we last cached it. To see what might have changed (without the highlights),  go to the current page .  Content:End   Hit:Start  You searched for:  HitHighlight:Start artificial   intelligence HitHighlight:End  We have highlighted matching words that appear in the page below.  Hit:End   Disclaimer:Start  Bing is not responsible for the content of this page.  Disclaimer:End   Banner:End  html 
 What Is Artificial Intelligence (AI)? | PCMag 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 #Amplify 
 
 
 #WorkFromHome 
 
 
 Reviews  
 
  Menu 
  Reviews 
 Reviews 
 
 
 Computers & Electronics 
 Software 
 Business 
 Editors' Choice 
 All Reviews 
 
 
 
 
 Computers & Electronics 
 Cars 
 Cameras 
 Desktops 
 Drones 
 Gaming Gear 
 Graphics Cards 
 Headphones 
 Laptops 
 Media Streaming Devices 
 Monitors 
 Network Attached Storage 
 Phones 
 Printers 
 Projectors 
 Processors 
 Routers 
 Scanners 
 Smart Home 
 Speakers 
 Storage 
 Tablets 
 TVs 
 VR 
 Wearables 
 
 
 Software 
 Antivirus 
 Backup 
 MacOS 
 Mobile Apps 
 PC Games 
 Photo Editing 
 Security 
 System Utilities 
 Video Editing 
 Video Streaming 
 VPN 
 Windows 10 
 
 
 Business 
 Accounting & Tax 
 CRM 
 Database 
 Email Providers 
 Productivity 
 Project Management 
 Video Conferencing 
 VoIP 
 Web Site Hosting 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Best Products  
 
  Menu 
  Best Products 
 Best Products 
 
 
 Computers & Electronics 
 Software 
 Business 
 All Best Products 
 
 
 
 
 Computers & Electronics 
 Best Cameras 
 Best Desktops 
 Best Graphics Cards 
 Best Hard Drives 
 Best Headphones 
 Best Home Security Cameras 
 Best Home Security Systems 
 Best Laptops 
 Best Monitors 
 Best Phones 
 Best Printers 
 Best Processors 
 Best Robot Vacuums 
 Best Smart Locks 
 Best Smartwatches 
 Best Streaming Devices 
 Best Tablets 
 Best TVs 
 Best VR Headsets 
 Best Wireless Routers 
 Best Wireless Speakers 
 
 
 Software 
 Best Android Apps 
 Best Antivirus Apps 
 Best DNA Testing Kits 
 Best iOS Apps 
 Best Online Backup Services 
 Best Password Managers 
 Best PC Games 
 Best Photo Editing Software 
 Best Security Suites 
 Best Video Editing Software 
 Best Video Streaming Services 
 Best VPN Services 
 
 
 Business 
 Best Accounting Software 
 Best Business  Intelligence  Tools 
 Best CRM Software 
 Best E-Commerce Platforms 
 Best Email Marketing Services 
 Best Help Desk Software 
 Best Project Management Apps 
 Best Tax Services 
 Best Video Conferencing Tools 
 Best VoIP Providers 
 Best Web Hosting Services 
 Best Website Builders 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 How-To  
 
  Menu 
  How-To 
 How-To 
 
 
 Computers & Electronics 
 Software 
 Business 
 All How-To 
 
 
 
 
 Computers & Electronics 
 How to Block Robocalls 
 How to Boost Your Wi-Fi Signal 
 How to Build a PC 
 How to Build Your Smart Home 
 How to Clone a Hard Drive 
 How to Free Up Space on Your iPhone or iPad 
 How to Increase Laptop Battery Life 
 How to Save Money on Your Cell Phone Bill 
 How to See Who’s on Your Wi-Fi 
 How to Set Up an Amazon Echo 
 How to Set Up Your Wi-Fi Router 
 How to Take Better Photos 
 Android Battery Tips 
 Apple TV Tips 
 iPhone Battery Tips 
 Google Chromecast Tips 
 Roku Tips 
 Smartphone Camera Tips 
 
 
 Software 
 How to Clear Browser Cache 
 How to Download YouTube Videos 
 How to Edit a PDF 
 How to Set Up Two-Factor Authentication 
 How to Set Up and Use a VPN 
 How to Speed Up Windows 
 How to Stay Safe Online 
 How to Take a Screenshot 
 Android Tips 
 Facebook Tips 
 Gmail Tips 
 Google Chrome Tips 
 Google Search Tips 
 iOS Tips 
 Windows Tips 
 
 
 Business 
 How to Build an E-Commerce Website 
 How to Create a Website 
 How to Choose a Web Host 
 How to Find Free Tools to Optimize Your Small Business 
 How to Get a Job in IT 
 How to Get Started With Project Management 
 How to Master PowerPoint 
 How to Optimize Your VoIP Network 
 How to Start an Online Business 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 News  
 
  Menu 
  News 
 News 
 
 
 
 News 
 The Why Axis 
 Race to 5G 
 Readers' Choice 
 Deals 
 Opinions 
 Fastest Mobile Networks 
 Fastest ISPs 
 All News 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Shop 
 
 
 Newsletters 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PCMag editors select and review products  independently . We may earn affiliate commissions from buying links, which help support our testing.  Learn more .
 
 
 
 
 Home 
   
 
 
 News 
   
 
 
 Artificial   Intelligence 
 
 
 
 
 What Is  Artificial   Intelligence  (AI)? The TL;DR is that AI is the science of building computers that can solve problems the way humans do. But there's much (much) more to it than that.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By
 Ben Dickson 
 
 
 
 
 
Updated
May 3, 2019
 
 
 
 
 
 facebook 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 twitter 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 flipboard 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 social share 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Flipboard 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Pinterest 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Reddit 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Email 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Copy Link 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In September 1955, John McCarthy, a young assistant professor of mathematics at Dartmouth College,  boldly proposed  that "every aspect of learning or any other feature of  intelligence  can in principle be so precisely described that a machine can be made to simulate it." 
 McCarthy called this new field of study " artificial   intelligence ," and suggested that a two-month effort by a group of 10 scientists could make significant advances in developing machines that could "use language, form abstractions and concepts, solve kinds of problems now reserved for humans, and improve themselves." 
 At the time, scientists optimistically believed we would soon have thinking machines doing any work a human could do. Now, more than six decades later, advances in computer science and robotics have helped us automate many of the tasks that previously required the physical and cognitive labor of humans.  
 But true  artificial   intelligence , as McCarthy conceived it, continues to elude us. 
 What Exactly Is AI?  
 A great challenge with  artificial   intelligence  is that it's a broad term, and there's no clear agreement on its definition. 
 As mentioned, McCarthy proposed AI would solve problems the way humans do: "The ultimate effort is to make computer programs that can solve problems and achieve goals in the world as well as humans,"  McCarthy said . 
 Andrew Moore , Dean of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, provided a more modern definition of the term in a  2017 interview with Forbes : " Artificial   intelligence  is the science and engineering of making computers behave in ways that, until recently, we thought required human  intelligence ." 
 
 But our understanding of "human  intelligence " and our expectations of technology are constantly evolving. Zachary Lipton, the editor of  Approximately Correct , describes the term AI as "aspirational, a moving target based on those capabilities that humans possess but which machines do not." In other words, the things we ask of AI change over time. 
 For instance, In the 1950s, scientists viewed chess and checkers as great challenges for  artificial   intelligence . But today, very few would consider chess-playing machines to be AI. Computers are already tackling much more complicated problems, including detecting cancer, driving cars, and processing voice commands. 
 Narrow AI vs. General AI 
 The first generation of AI scientists and visionaries believed we would eventually be able to create human-level  intelligence . 
 But several decades of AI research have shown that replicating the complex problem-solving and abstract thinking of the human brain is supremely difficult. For one thing, we humans are very good at generalizing knowledge and applying concepts we learn in one field to another. We can also make relatively reliable decisions based on intuition and with little information. Over the years, human-level AI has become known as  artificial  general  intelligence  (AGI)  or  strong AI. 
 The initial hype and excitement surrounding AI drew interest and funding from government agencies and large companies. But it soon became evident that contrary to early perceptions, human-level  intelligence  was not right around the corner, and scientists were hard-pressed to reproduce the most basic functionalities of the human mind. In the 1970s, unfulfilled promises and expectations eventually led to the "AI winter," a long period during which public interest and funding in AI dampened. 
 It took many years of innovation and a revolution in deep-learning technology to revive interest in AI. But even now, despite enormous advances in  artificial   intelligence , none of the current approaches to AI can solve problems in the same way the human mind does, and most experts believe AGI is at least decades away. 
 
 The flipside,  narrow or weak AI   doesn't aim to reproduce the functionality of the human brain, and instead focuses on optimizing a single task. Narrow AI has already found many real-world applications, such as recognizing faces, transforming audio to text, recommending videos on YouTube, and displaying personalized content in the Facebook News Feed. 
 Many scientists believe that we will eventually create AGI, but some have  a dystopian vision of the age of thinking machines . In 2014, renowned English physicist Stephen Hawking described AI as an existential threat to mankind,  warning  that "full  artificial   intelligence  could spell the end of the human race." 
 In 2015, Y Combinator President Sam Altman and Tesla CEO Elon Musk, two other believers in AGI, co-founded OpenAI, a nonprofit research lab that aims to create  artificial  general  intelligence  in a manner that benefits all of humankind. (Musk has since  departed .) 
 Others believe that  artificial  general  intelligence  is a pointless goal. "We don't need to duplicate humans. That's why I focus on having tools to help us rather than duplicate what we already know how to do. We want humans and machines to partner and do something that they cannot do on their own,"  says Peter Norvig , Director of Research at Google. 
 Scientists such as Norvig believe that narrow AI can help automate repetitive and laborious tasks and help humans become more productive. For instance, doctors can use AI algorithms to examine X-ray scans at high speeds, allowing them to see more patients. Another example of narrow AI is fighting cyberthreats: Security analysts can use AI to find signals of data breaches in the gigabytes of data being transferred through their companies' networks. 
 Rule-Based AI vs. Machine Learning 
 Early AI-creation efforts were focused on transforming human knowledge and  intelligence  into static rules. Programmers had to meticulously write code (if-then statements) for every rule that defined the behavior of the AI. The advantage of rule-based AI, which later became known as "good old-fashioned  artificial   intelligence " (GOFAI), is that humans have full control over the design and behavior of the system they develop. 
 Rule-based AI is still very popular in fields where the rules are clearcut. One example is  video games , in which developers want AI to deliver a predictable user experience. 
 The problem with GOFAI is that contrary to McCarthy's initial premise, we can't precisely describe every aspect of learning and behavior in ways that can be transformed into computer rules. For instance, defining logical rules for recognizing voices and images—a complex feat that humans accomplish instinctively—is one area where classic AI has historically struggled. 
 
 An alternative approach to creating  artificial   intelligence  is  machine learning .  Instead of developing rules for AI manually, machine-learning engineers "train" their models by providing them with a massive amount of samples. The machine-learning algorithm analyzes and finds patterns in the training data, then develops its own behavior. For instance, a machine-learning model can train on large volumes of historical sales data for a company and then make sales forecasts. 
 Deep learning,  a subset of machine learning, has become very popular in the past few years. It's especially good at processing unstructured data such as images, video, audio, and text documents. For instance, you can create a deep-learning image classifier and train it on millions of available labeled photos, such as  the ImageNet dataset . The trained AI model will be able to recognize objects in images with accuracy that often surpasses humans. Advances in deep learning have pushed AI into many complicated and critical domains, such as medicine, self-driving cars, and education. 
 
 
 Related 
 
 Where is AI Used the Most? In Cybersecurity 
 How AI Is Changing the PC 
 What Would Make You Trust an AI Assistant? How About a Face? 
 
 
 
 
 One of the challenges with deep-learning models is that they develop their own behavior based on training data, which makes them  complex and opaque . Often, even deep-learning experts have a hard time explaining the decisions and inner workings of the AI models they create. 
 What Are Examples of  Artificial   Intelligence ? 
 Here are some of the ways AI is bringing tremendous changes to different domains. 
 Self-driving cars:  Advances in  artificial   intelligence  have brought us very close to making the decades-long dream of autonomous driving a reality. AI algorithms are one of the main components that enable  self-driving cars to make sense of their surroundings , taking in feeds from cameras installed around the vehicle and detecting objects such as roads, traffic signs, other cars, and people. 
 Digital assistants and smart speakers:  Siri, Alexa, Cortana, and Google Assistant use  artificial   intelligence  to transform spoken words to text and map the text to specific commands. AI helps digital assistants make sense of different nuances in spoken language and  synthesize human-like voices . 
 
 Translation:  For many decades, translating text between different languages was a pain point for computers. But deep learning has  helped create  a revolution in services such as Google Translate. To be clear, AI still  has a long way to go  before it masters human language, but so far, advances are spectacular. 
 Facial recognition:  Facial recognition is one of the most popular applications of  artificial   intelligence . It has many uses, including  unlocking your phone , paying with your face, and detecting intruders in your home. But the increasing availability of facial-recognition technology has also given rise to concerns regarding privacy, security, and  civil liberties . 
 Medicine:  From  detecting skin cancer  and analyzing X-rays and MRI scans to  providing personalized health tips  and  managing entire healthcare systems ,  artificial   intelligence  is becoming a key enabler in healthcare and medicine. AI won't replace your doctor, but it could help to bring about better health services, especially in underprivileged areas, where AI-powered health assistants can take some of the load off the shoulders of the few general practitioners who have to serve large populations. 
 The Future of AI 
 In our quest to crack the code of AI and create thinking machines, we've learned a lot about the meaning of  intelligence  and reasoning. And thanks to advances in AI, we are accomplishing tasks alongside our computers that were once considered the exclusive domain of the human brain. 
 Some of the emerging fields where AI is making inroads include  music and arts , where AI algorithms are manifesting their own unique kind of creativity. There's also hope AI will help  fight climate change ,  care for the elderly , and eventually create a utopian future where  humans don't need to work at all . 
 There's also fear that AI will  cause mass unemployment , disrupt the economic balance,  trigger another world war , and eventually drive humans into slavery. 
 We still don't know which direction AI will take. But as the science and technology of  artificial   intelligence  continues to improve at a steady pace, our expectations and definition of AI will shift, and what we consider AI today might become the mundane functions of tomorrow's computers. 
 
 
 
 Further Reading 
   
 Translate Ancient Hieroglyphs With Google's New AI-Powered Tool 
 Microsoft's Powerful Supercomputer Will Supercharge AI for Azure Developers 
 Eric Schmidt Quietly Left Alphabet in February 
 UK Spies Need  Artificial   Intelligence  to Fight Cyber Attacks, Report Says 
 
 More in  Artificial   Intelligence 
 
 
 
 
 
 About Ben Dickson 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ben Dickson is a software engineer and tech blogger. He writes about disruptive tech trends including  artificial   intelligence , virtual and augmented reality, blockchain, Internet of Things, and cybersecurity. Ben also runs the blog TechTalks. Follow him on Twitter and Facebook. 
 
 Read the latest from Ben Dickson 
 
 AI Could Save the World, If It Doesn’t Ruin the Environment First 
 How AI Is Helping in the Fight Against COVID-19 
 Don't Get Scammed: 5 Security Tips for Work-From-Home Professionals 
 What Is a Deepfake? 
 What Is Computer Vision? 
 More from Ben Dickson 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Advertisement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PC Magazine Digital Edition 
 Get 67% Off Newsstand  Price  
 
 
 
 
 PCMag Newsletters 
 Our Best Stories in Your  Inbox  
 
 
 
 
 Follow PCMag 
 
 
 
 facebook 
   
 
 
 
 twitter 
   
 
 
 
 flipboard 
   
 
 
 
 google 
   
 
 
 
 instagram 
   
 
 
 
 pinterest 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Honest, Objective Reviews 
 PCMag.com is a leading authority on technology, delivering Labs-based, independent reviews of the latest products and services. Our expert industry analysis and practical solutions help you make better buying decisions and get more from technology. 
 How We Test 
 Editorial Principles 
 
   
 
 
 
 Reviews 
 Best Products 
 Categories 
 Brands 
 Events 
 Series 
 Encyclopedia 
 Sitemap 
 
 
 About PCMag 
 Careers 
 Contact Us 
 Press Center 
 
 
 
 © 1996-2020 Ziff Davis, LLC. PCMag Digital Group 
 PCMag, PCMag.com and PC Magazine are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission. The display of third-party trademarks and trade names on this site does not necessarily indicate any affiliation or the endorsement of PCMag. If you click an affiliate link and buy a product or service, we may be paid a fee by that merchant. 
 
 
 About Ziff Davis 
 Privacy Policy 
 Terms of Use 
 Advertise 
 
 Accessibility 
 
 
 Don't Sell My Personal Info 
 
 
 
 
 
 AdChoices
 
 
 
 
 truste logo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ziffmedia Logo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Askmen Logo 
 Logo_AskMenFix   
 
 
 
 Extremetech Logo 
 Extremetech   
 
 
 
 ING Logo 
 Logo_IGN   
 
 
 
 Mashable Logo 
 Mashable-logo 
 
 
 
 Offers Logo 
 Offers_LogoNoTag   
 
 
 
 Speedtest Logo 
 Speedtest_logo   
 
 
 
 
 TechBargains_Logo   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 